---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "The Last Dance"
date:    24-05-2020 
categories: posts
tags: 
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---


## Entry question

What should I choose?

What are the next steps?

## The Thesis

So I need to make a decision in which way I am going. There are always
going to be risks, uncertainties and I need to make the best decision
I can. I can get feedback and see how to go about it, post feedback.

There are *three options I am considering right now*. DS via a
Masters. DS via an L1 visa. Working for an EAO. There are *other
careers such as consulting*, IB or SWe I could potentially work in. I
do not pursue consulting as the odds seemed to be stacked against
me[^1]. Considering SWe and DS, they seem to have high earning
potential. An Apple Data Scientist with 3yoe earns about
300kTC???. Jeff Kaufman in Boston as a SWe earns about 300 k after a
few years of experience. [Here](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-average-salary-of-a-data-scientist-versus-a-software-engineer-at-Google-Microsoft-and-Facebook), it looks like they have similar
earning potential just looking at the median salaries[^2]. But SWe
seems to be too focused on programming, whereas DS gives you to chance
to keep touch with statistics, hypothesis generation and testing and
probability biases (friend from Apple) and a chance to work in EAO's
in DS (???) doing "direct work".SWe is also going to be harder for me
A quick glance at OPP or GiveWell requirements shows a focus on
statistics etc. Further more, we know Peter Hurford and "another
guy"(???) who were able to successfully move from DS to
EA. Nevertheless all the above claims could be false but considering
that they have similar earning potential and the chance to stay in
touch with statistics, claims etc... I would like to stick to DS vs
EAO rather than other ETG options.

### DS

Looking at DS via a masters and DS via an L1 a couple of factors need
to be considered. Chance of making it and how long it could take to get
into FAANG and if there would be any difference in earning potential.

One of the big factors is about getting an H1B, over three attempts
(over three years), you are able to clock a wicked 80% chance of
making it through the lottery[^3]. But the good times don't last. Once
you get an H1B, there is a 39.6% chance that you get an RFE (about
80-100k people).

People who usually get the *RFE* according to trackkit (???), are
those whose occupation "does not need a Bachelor's" or their
university degrees don't match with the work that they are doing
???. I have looked at a bunch of cases of people who got RFE. Even
people with CS back ground all their life are getting these rejections
and people with mechanical masters who moved to SWe are also getting
this. There doesn't seem to be a clear pattern, but nevertheless,
scares the bejsus out of me. Looking at the reason why most people get
RFE, I am kind of expecting the RFE regardless. This means that on top
of my H1B I also have an RFE approval rate, which considerably brings
down chance. So i.e., `40%x63% = 25.2%` for one attempt and for 3
attempts 58%. However good I am or not, this seems to be my chance of
getting in through the H1B route. With L1 unfortunately the same
chances still hold, as after an L1 (which lasts 5 years) I have to
move to a H1B anyways. I assume that we can apply three times and so
we have the same probabilities.

<!-- non quantifyable chances -->

So *beyond this 60%* I also need to find a job and "eventually" make
it to the great FAANG within the stipulated time or atleast A JOB for
now and then move into FAANG. But I know people in mech who have gone
to Apple after 2 years in Mu Sigma and an ivy league masters. or
people in CS who worked at Mu Sigma and followed by masters in
Berkeley who got into Walmart both closing 300k TC after roughly
4yoe. So if I spend as much time (hopefully attempting to DP) I think
I can reach their potential say delayed over a year or two
(claims???). So I will put it at an arbitrary 80% chance of being like
them. (regularly I meet people who move to DS job after 2 years of
studies or PDeng or the like even from a computation stand
point). ending up at 48%

On top of the *60% chance for L1 case*, finding an L1able company
might turn out to be tricky. All I know are a few cases of people who
working in India in a CS company for 2-3 years and pushed for it and
ended. In some cases people landed all the way in JP Morgan working in
IB, after an MBA, without an MBA. In addition I would need to be
really good and find those companies where L1 option is there and ask
upfront about such opportunities as these things take a lot of time
investment. Let's put it at an arbitrary 60-80% chance. Ending up at
36% to 48%.

<!-- Time to FAANG -->

With the Master's route based on other examples, I think 4 to 6 years
to a FAANG 300k job (age 34-36).

With the L1 route 2-3 years work 6 months prep to find a job and +2-5
years before getting H1B transfer. 4-8 years. 

<!-- other costs --> 

With the masters route, I would have to spend 50-70k??? at a public
university. This is already too much money for the probability. It
feels very risky. With the L1 route what we see is that I might still
have to invest in a online masters maybe (34k types???). But atleast I
keep having my income and day job doing (hopefully in DS racking up
experience). With the L1 route there is the also the misfortune of
finding a company that will allow you to use them to go to the states.

On top of that the stress, the anxiety for years on end and everytime
the extension of transfer or whatever should happen change in rules
etc...

<!-- impact -->

Impact wise both seem to be similar give or take 1-2 years. As with L1
you are probably in the US from 4th year. 

Jeff Kaufman is able to do 50%. So should anyone else be able to
do. With a 300k TC, 150k sounds like most of the salary. Would that be
enough? Well, [with 150k donations you get back say 36k](https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=content.view&cpid=40)???. You are
taxed on the rest of the 150k, which means you will get 100k +36k for
living. Bruv... EA researchers get paid 80k in gross. If they can do
it, I can do it with 136 hot cash. 

**Conclusion**

So if you look at it, chance-wise, both are similar. Time to FAANG 0-4
years off. Other costs, both have tuition, but in one case I am still
making money while paying much less tuition. It costs me 90k including
the opportunity cost because I am not going to work. In the L1 case it
costs say 20k because I am earning too at that time. Not to mention
the stress and problems that come with debt in the chance that I don't
make it. Usually yes people will try and if you are good enough, you
get the chance to come back and try again, but

So, 150kx48%x25yoe - 90k = 1710k + lots of stress in the first
years + potential debt of 70k in case I don't make it

So, (150kx36%x23yoe) - 20k = 1222k

Completely unexpected results difference. So if I value lots of stress
in the first place, potnetial debt of 70k in case I don't make it? but
even if I work for 1-2 years I should be able to make most of this. 

In both cases I will able to come to Netherlands and pick up my life
from there potentially donating 10k (its a lot)

When I tank and come back to Netherlands I would be in the masters
case worst case 70k in debt. In the L1 option I would not be in
debt in the worst case.

**What could reduce the uncertainty?**

Talking to a lawyer?

brother paying tuition

Working to get a scholarship

Understanding possibilities with L1 (talk with L1 lady)

## EAO

<!-- What could I be -->
I could be a researcher, or go into some form of management. But
researcher seems to be where I need to go first, before I climb the
ladder as seen in this case ???. I don't want to be in operations ro
program management, in any case I don't know what these jobs entail
and I have no "inclination" to it yet. I know that I really don't want
to be buying tickets, or filling in the bills of others.

**Value attributed to the individual**

For this we would need to look at a particular form of impact that we
can compare to ETG. It becomes very handy to look at the likes of
GivWell or OPP or even TLYCS as they are all involved in moving
money. By comparison I mean you can give money to GiveWell to fund
it's top charities which have huge claimed funding gaps (100m AMF) or
you can work there.

GiveWell moved 110m in 2015. It estimated a whopping 9 co-founder
equivalents for that year. A beginner level researcher is estimated to
contribute 10% of a co-founder. Let's say over a life time you average
48% of co-founder value[^4]. This means that the money moved by *YOU*
is `0.48/9x110m$`. This is `5.97m` per year on average assuming
GiveWell stays where it is for the next 25 years. Also the donors and
the organizations below have the claim to the impact from this
110m`$`. In a configuration such as donor (Good Ventures),
Money-moving-organization (GiveWell) and the intervention carrier, I
assume that the split is 33% each. That becomes `5.97mx0.33 = 1.97m$`

Now this is tempting. But we need to look at counterfactual
impact. For that we need to understand replaceability. One is of the
org, the impact associated with the presence and absence of it. I
assume this as 0.3 based on 80000hours estimate for their own
organization???. `1.97mx0.3=650k`

When I checked with orgs in GH&P, people quoted 90%-100% saying that
they were able to find for researchers. OPPs hiring round with "top
people" such as in harvard shows the quality of students they are
hiring. Assuming the replaceability varies between 0 and 90%. but the
value would be somewhere in between leaning closer to the 65k, because
of the saturated talent pool as informed atleast in orgs I know of in
GH&P. And there are a lot of people.  replaceability. I tried making
an estimation of the spillover effect, but there are lot of
assumptions there[^5]. Factoring in replaceability of the person following
the displacement chain in the foot note we get:

95 to 153k counterfactual assuming 10%-20% replaceability and the model
shown in footnotes. between you and the last person who missed the ea job.

<!-- cross checking with other estimates ballpark -->

some orgs informed me of a counterfactual of about 200k
Now now, the same can't be said about orgs and working there. 

then value of an org

then show replaceability. and reduce the value of the org to
estimations. 

Let's talk about replaceability. So if you ETG or not to GiveWell
there is a difference in that the orgs (AMF) won't be able to do what
they want to do based on the money you give.

<!-- Chance for making it to an EAO -->

If I look at GiveWell then all the analysts who have joined recently
are from Harvard, Stanford, MIT or Oxford. Same with OPP.

I didn't get an internship with CE right now because my "test task
crucial considerations was not up to par".

The lack of jobs that I could be cut out for given my citizenship and
GR skillset around 15 world wide over 3 months even considering Data
science and internships. Most of them needed ML AI or specific
knowledge and citizenships to US or UK.

I don't know about the chance of making it here. It's hard to asses
the demand and supply. Even if you do I don't know where to go with
it. 

But I might have to start somewhere low like an intern and gain
experience and move up the ladder if I want to make it in this
business. Such as a program manager. But then I need to start now. and
start climbing the ladder. 

I need to be Harvard level to get GiveWell. I need to be atleast among
the  

What is the chance of me getting there? I don't know. It's gonna be
hard, but with dedicated effort I should be able to. Milan Griffes did
it. After being rejected 2 times. Maybe at that time the pool was low
quality.

I don't have more time to waste. 

STM will ask what have others done to up their game to get into Ea

Therila pandiya. I don't have examples. But i could talk to those
people and see how to develop in that field? speak to givewell
researchers maybe? work on givewell projects by self? But what if it
fails after 5 years?

Plan for the next six months, reevaluate

<!-- other factors -->

<!-- story of which to take among DS and EAO and why -->

## Make or break


DS masters has the issue of debt (90k including OC) and chance (60%)
going against it. Donations could potentially be 150k after 4-6 years
for 25 years.

DS with L1 has the issue that I need to find an L1able company and
after that the same chances (60%) still hold. Donations could
potentially be 150k after 5-8 years for 23 years. 

Of course all of this includes the chance of loosing the job in
recession say a 10% chance. and note that donating this money to say
GiveWell makes you irreplaceable as they always have funding
shortages.

Around 3 million people max could be on H1B with the govt allowing
230k people every year and starting in 2009 with [650k people](https://cis.org/Memorandum/Estimating-Size-H1B-Population-US). And
assuming all layoffs from tech are 200k (currently 60k), we get to 6%
layoffs. And mind you this number also has a decent proportion of
Americans and gc holders. it includes all types of staff.

With EAs the scene is that you there seems to be high potential with
you being greater than the last person you displace into ETG (10%
better leads to 65k 20% better leads to more) and you will never know
your true impact could be anywhere. If the impact is as I have estimated with
replaceability between me and

**If you pursue EA**

Pursuing EA would mean work on claims, hypothesis testing, the
scientific method, reading and working out a lot of EA claims and
improving writing. [Writing on EA forum](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/hcdwSvGntCDJxCuqx/examples-of-people-who-didn-t-get-into-ea-in-the-past-but?commentId=DivnrA7BNq68xddWf) etc... Maybe start
internships, apply for them start as a content editor etc... and try
these things.

I think I can make my way to an internship if I work hard similar to
MSJ. Work hard and move from there?

I need to somehow get really good (usually takes 10000hours of
deliberate practice). Keeping the motivation alive during my time I am
by myself and hope that there will be enough jobs for non-citizens 15
per 3 months. 

When I look at StJules or the other guy who got into RP, I think with
some hardwork I can catch up to his level. I don't know a few months?
But that is an internship that he has mind you.

I would think 1 year to internship and another more to some job in EA
(not givewell level)

**If you pursue masters and job**

This would mean trying to change jobs now, taking ML courses and then
finding a job and moving etc... Working on application in the
meanwhile for US masters and getting in. Preparing and writing my GRE
etc... in 1.5 to 2 years get to US start FT masters and then try and
find a job in FAANG etc...

In the case it doesn't work out I will know at the end of 3 years
after masters that I didn't make it for whatever reason and move back
to Netherlands and do what I can with the rest of my life. I would be
35 36 by then.

**if you pursue L1 route**

This would still mean change jobs now, so taking ML courses and then
finding a job and moving. Working on identifying L1 companies, so
finding and talking to people and improving skills all along so that
people really value me. 

**If you pursue both**

There is a lot of work to do in each and I am unsure of doing both. 

My plan is to start the next three months understanding about global
poverty by doing MIT courses, try to see if I can also do the policy
courses. I want to choose courses because of the structured
learning maybe get an introduction to policy in the same way and jump
into GH&P start writing apping for internships. Pick up projects,
hopefully the courses provide some framework which is what I am
counting on. and its by some epic people. I don't want to postpone as
the next one is in Feb. 

I am worried about my age. I dont' want to be forever stuck in this
battle of choosing what to do. 

Making decisions are hard and 


I want to stop writing about this shit. It's getting me nowhere. 

Since october last year I am trying to write, look at claims and its
not working. I could have happily done and something and failed at
it. I just don't know the outcome that is ok. I will do something.



## Footnotes

[^1]: cite the notes on probability from previous research

[^2]: expand on the quora link and write it down.

[^3]: 80% chance? how?

[^4]: write about how you came to the 48%

[^5]: write the replaceability calculation


All jobs are equal value & every set of people vary by 10% then only
the first and the last jobs will count for the replaceability.


write the equations

It doesn't depend on n1 or n2. It just depends on the job I displace
followed by the last best researcher.  the more better you are than
the worst researcher the more money you make.

## Conclusion

Ea seems to be a high impact opportunity based on my replaceability
calcs. The better you are the more you rack. Compared to the US
situation where there are lot of uncertainties with layoffs, and even
making reduced to 50% the chance. Its seems to end up good and also
feel good as Peterje says that ... count on L1 the
opportunity.Transfer and keep all options open! and work hard like
peter or whoever .. in the worst case atleast there is some fall back!


With the issues that I don't know how long it takes to get an EA job
and if it is possible, it seems wise to start off with shifting to DS
job ASAFP 3-6 months. While I am working in DS I can rack up DS
experience and simultaneously work on the side. 
