---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  " Marriage - Sex (4)"
date: 30-05-2017 20:21
categories: The Beginning
permalink: /:title.html
---

#### How many times

>How can my wife tell me that she’s “in love” with me and still leave me without sex for five
years? How can I cope with this without resorting to divorce, affairs, or castration!!    
-someone in the article ["dont_marry"][dont_marry]

Fuck me!    

>"During our courtship days, we could hardly keep our hands off each other, and we could get down to it anywhere and everywhere, from bedroom and bathroom and once even behind a sari that was being put up to dry! But one-and-a-half-years into marriage, and you realise that someone's just come down with this huge club and smashed your balls with things like 'roof-over-head responsibility', 'good husband', 'responsible fatherhood','winning the bread'... it feels like sheer castration! And then when you've to worry about who's going to put the clothes in the machine and who's going to clear the table, believe me, sex can and does often wait."    
-[Craig, VJ in India](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/relationships/love-sex/Married-Indian-couples-having-less-sex/articleshow/9943548.cms)

Cannot believe Craig saying this. He has been in a relationship for 6 years with this hot chick and then married his gal. During his good years he was well in demand on TV. No idea what he is doing now though. If Craig's fate is this, then what about others who are not half as sexy or in popular as he was.

If women are going to be nagging bitches after marriage. If they are not going to give you sex 'x' times a week, for the rest of your life, if they are not even going to give you blowjobs, as they know they are married and they don't need to, why are you marrying again? And all this, even when you try to be kind to them and buy them what they need and so on. I guess it helps to get some stats on the exact number people claim to have sex in a week. 

I did a search, it says men get fucked ~100 times a year between the age of 34 to  44. Wow thats pretty high I would think. But the [article][dont_marry] we have been discussing these past days makes me extremely wary of this information. I am not inclined to trust the first answer given online regarding "studies" claiming high ass numbers as 100 or even 68. That seems odd considering almost all people hate their marriages in the ["dont marry"][dont_marry] thread, many claiming rare sex and sex being un-passionate. I have the feeling people lie about their sex life, when asked directly, but that answers in an anonymous manner where they don't have to reveal their true identity, might seem more useful and truthful for us. Comments on a thread, more than actual "studies" claimed is newspapers, seem for me more valuable. I assume also that people cannot ask their friends and come to a conclusion on the number of times people have sex. Why would your friends tell you the truth, let alone entertain you even to ask such questions.

A quick look at the stats on some websites: Daily mail UK, reports that ["most people, fall into this(sex once a week) category"][daily_mail] in 2016. It also goes on to add that these couples who had sex 5 times a month are not those unhappy couples. [This outlet][every_day] claims that Sex doc David Schnarch found 26 % of 20000 couples just hitting a once a week mark (Not able to find this in a different version anywhere online). And 7 times a month according to the University of Chicago press 10 years ago. All in all around 50 to 80 times a year for the average man seems plausible, looking at all these numbers. Seems high compared to what I expected it to be, having seen ["dont marry"][dont_marry]. But anyways looking at things like Quora, Webmd and["dont marry"][dont_marry], and studying their comments, I will guess a 50% chance that people might have sex around 60 to 80 times a year, especially because Webmd had comments where people claimed to have sex 10 times a week as well as people who claimed to have little or no sex. 

Sex seems to be one of the defining parts of a marriage atleast for men. I conclude that there seems to be a 50% chance that one can fuck around 50 to 80 times a year for the next 10 years after marriage. 

# Open Issue
Why does my brother and all my cousins and parents think they should marry and go on to say that I should marry? odd!

People who marry look so happy outside! But they look so happy outside? Probability


[sex_stats]:http://healthresearchfunding.org/sexless-marriage-statistics/
[dont_marry]:https://dontmarry.wordpress.com/
[cryonics]:http://www.overcomingbias.com/2009/03/break-cryonics-down.html
[not_working]:http://mgtow.proboards.com/index.cgi?board=general&action=display&thread=415&page=1
[nl_mar_age]:http://www.iamexpat.nl/read-and-discuss/expat-page/news/the-dutch-getting-married-later-and-less-often
[daily_mail]:http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3536424/How-times-week-REALLY-having-sex.html
[every_day]:https://www.everydayfamily.com/how-often-do-normal-couples-have-sex/
