---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "  Career"
date:    11-10-2017 22:15
categories: The Beginning
permalink: /:title.html
published: False

---

#### First things First: Savings
Whether you are saving to give or whether you are going to do research to solve the [big questions][80k_problems], or you are just don't know what to do and want to gain solid transferable CC (Career Capital), there are somethings that we need to take care of. Savings for that rainy day. Also the goal is to "Give" all through your life, to be productive as hell, so we will be investing and focusing on things that gets us this longevity.

According to the [80k hrs website][80k_successful], they suggest to save for 6 months to 1 year of comfortable living. This is priority. Until then we need to cut back your donations to 1%. In case shit hits the roof suddenly, in case you want to take some risks or make some big career changes, you have the flexibility and saving cushion to fall back on.

Well, it might appear that, that is that. Well it's not. We need to save for retirement. I don't know how much I need, I don't know what is good. I don't know how to factor like inflation etc... Without getting into the detail of it, I am again citing [80k articles' ][80k_successful]. Their rule of thumb is to save 15% for retirement. Right now I shall not question it. As and when I find time to read about it, I shall optimize the retirement savings.

My situation right now is that I have to give money back to my parents (no pressure), in the regime of 36k euros. It will take 3 years of good savings to do that. I will get back to retirement savings once I have paid my parents this money. It feels really wrong to talk about this now. But my parents are probably going to leave me a house worth 133k euros in India, plus 13k euros in savings atleast, and probably these 36k euros will come back to me as well, as they are extremely well off. So for these 3 years, I am not going to be worried about retirement savings, but just will keep my cushion, so that I can take the decisions that I want to and can be independent.

In conclusion, these are some crucial years for me, I will keep with me 6k euros (6 months worth expenditure), and the rest, I will send it back to parents. I add to the backlog to read the recommended books regarding financial matter as in the  [80k hours website][ 80k_successful].

#### First things first : Physical health

Having had ailments like RSI and even to this day back pain and knee pain (seemingly not serious), and noting the alarm from the [80k website][80k_successful], it seems wise to invest in physical health. This means eating well and regular exercising. By the end of December I will read  more and come up with concrete parameters regarding health and what exactly I should do. One of the parameters I believe is fat percentage, that directly relates to good/bad health. For now, I am strength training 4-5 days a week and doing cardio for atleast 20 minutes everyday as per the "advice" of an STM. I also play sport for about 2 hrs on sunday.

It's been 2 months since I started the [intermediate workout of scooby][scooby_intermediate]. 3 years back when I tried the intermediate workout I became "bedridden" for a while. Its going well now in the sense that I am working out to my best current capability and am not "bedridden" in any way, by that I mean I try to keep the workout sessions challenging. I could never imagine doing squats a year and a half ago. From time to time I still do get BP. I don't know if it is associated with my 8 hr sitting at work, or something I am missing in food, or my lack of posture at home while writing sitting on the bed, or stressing my back during workouts (barbell rows and deadlifts).

I am particularly concerned that maybe some exercises like the barbellrow and the deadlifts are probably causing some pain, as I remember seeing backpain when performing those exercises recently. Usually my rule of thumb is that if there is no serious pain in the back after a workout, the next day or a few hrs from the workout then, all is good. Having learn't about RSI, I am skeptical about any pain in the back, neck, or knee. It could all be in the head. But what about the off-chance that your form is shit and you are actually screwing your back? I would expect increased frequencies of backpain or more lasting pain.

Right now I don't measure anything, like the number of occurrences and duration of bp, but maybe I should?

A quick test would be to not do these excercises for a week and see if I have the typical pains I do have during the week, such as pain when sitting etc... or I could log the pain when I get them, for 2 weeks, and see if it has anything to do with the type of workout. I would suspect to see patterns related to days when I do pull workout (barbell row) and leg workout (squats & Dead lifts).

One of my biggest worries is if I really minutely keep tabs of this whole situation, constantly check if I have pain or not, like I did 3 years back, I am internally on high alert for pain. As I write this and think about it, I feel pain already. This is the type of shit I want to avoid. Over the past many months, my mantra has been not to give a fuck about pain, especially when it comes for seemingly silly reasons, for example having a bad posture while writing. I have read a lot of articles from people with RSI and chronic BP. The goal is to continue doing things, unless there is a crazy alarm. I remember this amazon review of this guy who shared his story of being bedridden to I-can-dance-again. It was all about challenging the status quo and not being afraid to challenge the body about it's alarms.

Sure, I could start doing machines instead of doing the excercises where the form could go wrong. I will look into it. My current gym, does not have too many machines, as it is a small gym. I will look into the options. I don't want to spend too much time in the gym as a result. As long as I am able to work the same muscles shouldn't be a problem.

In summary, I think I am saying I will stick to slow form and low weights in cases where I think it is serious and slowly build up. For squats I initially started with nothing and over 3 or 4 months moved slowly to a barbell. Recently I am pushing further and further to my limits as I am more confident with it. In case I see pain beyond what I think is normal (normal being the thing I feel when I do squats), I will stop or try again with lower weights. I will roughly keep tabs about BP and see how I am doing over time, by that I mean, I will do it on paper, in a way that I can't see the history, so that I don't worry myself causing more pain. I will review this once a week.

**Stress**
I should admit that I am sometimes afraid to give up working out as I will loose my gains or my progress. Sometimes, certain things make life so busy that you can't go to a workout, it's not the end of the world. Although, Cardio should ideally not be missed. Only recently have I come to terms about not stressing about missing a workout or not worrying that I am unable to make progress in weights in an exercise. Things take time. I want to tell myself that the visible gains will take a few years. Gains such that I will be able to shoulder press 30kg with one hand will take atleast a year. I want to focus on the now, and how I feel during a workout, do my best at eating well and reaping the best gains possible.

[scooby_intermediate]:http://scoobysworkshop.com/intermediate-workout-plan/


#### First things first: other things

Maintain your closest friendships. The [80k hours][80k_successful] explains several other ideas to keep yourself mentally and physically capable. This is added to the backlog for now.

profession, main salary, best saving, pressure, tax, savings expenditure, bonus and % increase, per hour payment, in 2 years pay and saving and in 5 years pay and saving

#### Career data I have
I am a mechanical engineer, I am 27 years old. I live in holland and earn 40k euros/ year working at a precision engineering company as a design engineer. My best saving per year will be 16 k euros, with reasonable living. It's a 9 to 5 job, relatively no pressure. I am doing design work as well as solving and troubleshooting for issues that occur in my company. For not so big companies, unlike ASML, this is a "pretty good" salary for a starter after masters according to my peers. My tax is about 26%, savings about 40%(16k), 34% (13,6k) expenditure. I think I can expect a 3 to 5 % increase in pay every year, maximum (1.5k after taxes). Taking into account my holidays (28 days/ year) I get paid about ~21 euros an hour.

My friend works at shell, holland in a management role, fresher just like me. Shell is big company, and so he gets paid 45k when he started. 12.5k increase per year, which comes to 27% hike for the first year. He would earn 52.5 k in the second year. It is a relatively high pressure job, where you are responsible for a lot of important things. 2 years here managing people, I guess you can get a good hike of atleast 20% when jumping companies. Taking into account his holidays, he gets paid about ~25 euros per hour in the first year and 30 euros in the next year. With his kind of earning, I could have a tax of 30%, expenditure of 27.2 % (13,6k), and a saving of 22k euros (42.8%).
Growth is crazy.

My colleague who is a fantastic electrical engineer, who knows his shit, who is probably as important as me in the company, gets 52 k now after 3 years of work here. I cannot believe all those years of work has got him this far only when my friend can earn more than him.

If I had a career at ASML, within the same profession, as it is a big ass company, the pay is more, the bonuses are crazy depending on what the record the company breaks each year. With ASML the start salary is 46k. Roughly the tax is 30%, expenditure still the same of 13,6k (29%), and a saving of 19k (41%). Also there is this thing called profit sharing within the company and I heard last year everyone got a bonus of 20% (9.2k), when taxed at 50%, becomes an extra 4.6k in the pocket, making the annual possible savings as 23.6k. I don't know what the salary hike is with every year, It has to be around 10% atleast (in between what shell and my company offers.)

I want to check how the growth is within ASML. Maybe this career and slowly moving to a design leader position where I don't do stuff, but manage people, will make me earn more.

My cousin from dubai

My friend from germany in a tech job, similar to mine in the sense that if I go to that country, I can earn pretty much the same. Unless its computer science, you don't really get the big bucks in engineering, unless of course you are part of the management.


My friend body, works for google in the bay area.

My brother works for a graphic card company in the bay area as an antenna designer. After 5 years of work ex, he gets paid130k with other options(for now I will not value them or value them at an additional 10k)

I have seen others in the industry, and by far the biggest buck earner is the guy from google doing data analytics for products. He says there is a lot of pressure, but then, he still manages to do 9 to 5. of course he is brighter than me and worked in the field of analytics for 2 years and did a masters in an ivy league institute. But the DA job he claims he can get 200k easily by the next year. I also checked with him how much he can save, he said it was about. You get 30% taxed, I think he said he can save about 33k $, which amounts to about 29 k euros. But that is what he can save with all his trips abroad and a posh house. Maybe I can save 43k, which could be 36k euros.

AShwin in the same field as me, growing in a general manner (also like me) says he can save 38k $ which is 32k euro. everything we get in addition to 95k with a tax of 30% will be savings. Whcih means for a salary of 200k$, you could potentially save 32k Euro + 51k euros. This could be in 5 years for me for my journey from here. 80k Euros mother fucker. savings. 52 fucking lakhs a year.

In 5 years with the best known example of money making (shell) I could save


Moving to DA, might not be hard for now. but moving to the US might be hard.

Things I want to know,,,, how much can you earn in 10 years

Of course the travel to US will be a bitch, but anything you do, in the US, profitable by 10k to 50k euros over time.s

[80k_successful]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/how-to-be-successful/#13-consider-teaching-yourself-these-other-useful-work-skills
[80k_problems]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/world-problems/


#### First analysis

According to 80k hrs website, I am unable to decide or choose which problem might give me the best impact.Of course it has shortlisted some of the problems.

It seems to me that working on career capital instead can get be better results. Why am I saying this?

I am a deisgn engineer, having looked at the my best senior with 9 years of design expereince, and assuming that I can be him,  maybe I can do design projects to save the world. This field is doesn't earn as much as a data scientist in the top companies in the US. Anyways, I see that I am unable to evaluate my scenario as opposed to contributing the field of data science.  and then came probabilities.

But to get the big bucks, you need to start your own company. or to contribute to actual problems, your design skills are not key. With sufficient design knowledge or even no design knowledge I think one can still run a company with the right set of skills. For example, if you wanted to get a contractin rotterdam with the govn to solve probelms, I think it requires branching into some form of engineering management.

I have never been the guy to lead teams of such a high level. But maybe I can, maybe I take baby steps. But the point is I don't see it workign well right up as so many things need to go right for it.
#### Career
Go to the 80k hours website, see how you can contribute, if you can't then its either making huge money or gainging crazy career capital that will help you gain money or do things well. We first start there.





#### Building a satisfying career and making a difference

>Career capital is anything that puts you in a better position to make a difference in the future, including skills, connections, credentials and runway.

> young and you have a lot to learn.


>Some of the best ways to gain career capital early on include:

>Working in any organisation which has, or with any people who have, a reputation for high performance e.g. top consultancy or technology firms, or any work with a great mentor or team.

Not the current one I am in right now!

>Undertaking certain graduate studies, especially applied quantitative subjects like economics, computer science and applied mathematics.

Possible options...

>Anything that gives you a valuable transferable skill e.g. programming, data science, marketing.

Possible options...

>Taking opportunities which allow you to achieve impressive and socially valuable things e.g. founding an organisation, doing anything at which you might excel.

???


#### Mistake 1

Invest enough in to workout in the long run, you cannot be mozart of Mark, in other news they did invest quite their time into their work.

>If you want to get your dream job, then you’ll probably need to invest in yourself first.

Most people reach their peak impact in 40.

Expert-level performance in established fields requires 10-30 yers of focussed practice.
#### [All the evidence-based advice we found on how to be successful in any job][ling2]


[ling]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/career-capital/
[ling2]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/how-to-be-successful/
[ling0]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/world-problems/
