---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Value system ?"
date:    17-07-2017 19:06
categories: The Beginning
permalink: /:title.html
published: False
---

>This is why rationalists put such a heavy premium on the paradoxical-seeming claim that a belief is only really worthwhile if you could, in principle, be persuaded to believe otherwise.

#### Conflicting views

As to why we should follow the value system? religiously, even though we don't feel like doing so. I earn 3000 euros a month, why should I give it to someone else?

But then I feel sad when I see people suffer. When I see a video of people in Aleppo suffering, I weep. It pains. Yet I have done nothing to alleviate my pain. My friend, who I believe has not donated money of such amounts (75 euro), one day told me that he saw that his teachers daughter was going to die of cancer, and immediately donated 75 Euros.

After a few minutes... Allepo? Ya. Well it doesn't pain as much as it did a few mins back. I can maximum donate 10 Euros per month. 

And save how many people with that? 0.000001?

What is the point?

It seems like I am not able to choose and stick with one response, or that I am triggered to feel multiple things at different moments.

What should I be doing?

Everyday I alocate 2 to 3 hrs of work to do. A recent trend is that I feel sleepy AF as soon as I start thig work, I push through, then I sleep and then come out of it and have a good time writing later. The first one hour seems too difficult. Especially that I plan to work at a given time. I try to force and control my creativity to this particular time. I don't know what I am doing wrong.
Almost everyday, the first hr is hopeless.

#### 3 Options

It appears that there are 3 options. 
1. Why promote the agenda of some value system?
2. Why do everything that a particular value system wants?
3. Why not just do what ever we are doing now? This would mean, I don't know hwat this would mean.

#### WHy?

Recently, its been hard. Eliezer has been of little help. I am not sure reading every single essay will churn out the right results even. At this point, I am just feeling blocked and would like to pen my thoughts for an STM to guide be a bit. I did read [intuitions][] but that had so many more questions. Going through all of the attachments in the post and the before and after posts helped get even more confused. Because nothing was understandable in the first run. I suspect that I kept reading as it was much easier or less work to not write. 
