---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "How to Deliberate Practice"
date:    13-09-2018 
categories: drafts
tags: 
permalink: /:title.html
published: true
---

<!-- Hard essay come back another day quote from an STM's -->
	
## Mission

> In short, I want a point-by-point training session design. Even if
> that's an extreme, it's at least an ideal to aim for. Imagine how
> you approach your lifting in the gym. You don't just walk in there
> and say "I'm going to do ~~deliberate practice~~
> weight-lifting!". You say, "3 sets of bench press (with X pounds,
> X + 5 pounds, and X + 10 pounds - solve for X), 3 sets of inclined
> bench press, etc." You know pretty much exactly what you're going to
> do. You even know in advance your entire workout routine for the
> week! That's what I want.
>
> If this were a well-known domain like violin-playing or football,
> there would be a coach and he would tell you which warm-up exercises
> to do, how long to practice dribbling, how long to practice crosses,
> etc. and he would tell you how you could improve your passing when
> you're surrounded and how you could get more stamina. But I don't
> think there is a coach here. So, we kind of have to design our own
> routines. But they need to be as detailed and well-designed as the
> ones above. After all, it's the first element of a deliberate
> practice routine: "It's designed specifically to improve
> performance."
>
> To this end, I've built up the habit of doing five to fifteen
> minutes of rough deliberate practice each night for the last one
> month. That five minutes needs to become five hours and that rough
> practice needs to become Olympic-level practice.
>
> This comes to the question I want to answer myself: how to design a
> good deliberate practice regimen for a skill that is not as
> formalized as violin-playing, baseball, or chess? For example, how
> would one deliberately practice programming? How would one
> deliberately practice scientific thinking, if that is as important
> as I think it is?
>
> Even more specifically, there seem to be two key aspects: being able
> to do something you couldn't do earlier and then doing it on
> demand. An example of the first aspect is knowing how to apply a
> particular deep learning model like RNN. I don't know that and have
> to practice. An example of the second aspect is that I know how to
> apply the scientific method but the problem is that I don't always
> remember to use it when I hear someone propose a hypothesis. So, I
> suspect I have to come up with a list of skills and divide them into
> those I need to learn and those I need to apply regularly. And, of
> course, within the first list of skills, I'd have to further divide
> them under the music, chess, and sports model and practice them
> accordingly. As to the second list of skills, I'm not fully sure
> what to do but I have some ideas.
>
> The research suggests that it is wise to focus on exactly one skill
> at a time.

>Mission #2: Collect actual, everyday instances where you fell short
>because of lack of "critical thinking" (why am I putting "critical
>thinking" in scare quotes?) and divide them into skills. No abstract
>skills like "logical structure" or "critical thinking". Concrete
>instances where you failed. That will give you harsh feedback. If you
>stop failing, it means your deliberate practice is working. If not,
>it means it's not working, even if you think you're doing
>great. NINRTT. Then, come up with rough deliberate practice plans for
>the skills based on the three models.
>
>For example, one skill could be "not accepting a claim without
>empirical evidence". Concrete situations where you may have failed in
>this could be "I didn't spend much this month" (but you didn't even
>look at the actual debits on your bank account) or "the gym will be
>open till 9pm" (and you go there and find out it closed at 5pm
>because of Fall break, which you could have looked up on the
>website). So, the obvious feedback is that you don't make such
>mistakes because of lack of empiricism. Another quicker form of
>feedback is perhaps a daily counter for the number of empirical
>sources you've looked up. (Notice how hard it is to get exact
>feedback for bad thinking? It happens without us even
>realizing. Getting good feedback is a problem that needs to be
>solved.)
>
>10 skills. 10 concrete instances for each + DP detailed
>plan. 3k words. 1 week.
>
>Again, great work. This is now the standard at which I'm going to
>judge your essays, Mr. Agent. Any less and I'll know that you're not
>even trying.


## Planning

This is a high stakes situation. I need to do more. 
saturday- 3 hrs

sunday- 5 hrs

Need to fecilitate more writing. how... I have one hour pandian
- many examples
- classification of examples
- splitting of these examples into skills...
  - splitting of these skills into on demand and never done before
  - counting to 10
  - adding DP tbd for these cases
  
## What do I need to do


- point-by-point training session design. Just like in the gym,
  something where you know the entire plan for the week.
  
- We need to design our own practice sessions, specifically to improve
  performance.
  
- How dos one DP scientific thinking if tha tis as important as an STM
  thinks it is?
  
  But here am like, Man, whats the point. I am happy with my skill. I
  think it is good enough. But the point of the matter is that boy
  have you not gotten feedback. **I basically don't know where I suck.**

- There are 2 key aspects : 
	
	- doing something you couldn't do earlier 
	
		Like say gaining the ability to do Data Science or critical
        thinking like never before for example.
		
	- and then doing it on demand
		
		Knowing about scope sensitivity and not applying it when there
        is an opportunity. Knowing the scienctific method and not
        applying it everytime  you hear a hypothesis.
		
		Say shooting with that same focus while practicing or 
	
- as said before I think I am good to go! what is the point of
  Critical thinking anyway? Where can I improve? Do I need to even
  improve?
  
  
## actual instances where you fell short because of CT/logic

~~- example:

	"I didn't spend much this week (but you didn't even look at the
    actual debits in your account) 
	
	Skill: not accepting claims without empirical evidence.
	
	feedback: don't make such mistakes also, a counter for the number
    of empirical sources you've looked up.
	
- Every night when I go back home, I want to put my youtube down so I
  can sleep soon and~~ 
  
  
What can your critical thinking do for you?

~~- I know I don't have a house at the end of this month and I can't
  find a cheap one, yet for somereason I am still cool about
  things. Right now I have no real source of finding a house and am
  not really taking any effort in some deluded sense thinking that I
  have much better things to do. 
  
  I still continue to watch a lot of youtube, take up tasks for
  friends, go for dinners everyweek spending quite some time
  
  Its more about procrastination.
  
  
- Until yesterday I didn't know if I had a job or not from next month,
  meaning having to find a job in the next three months, not finding a
  job having mighty consequences.~~
  
- Yesterday I spent 3 hrs and today another 3 hrs at the library on
  data science. 
  
- I don't knwow how deep I should go if I don't understand anything. I
  just wait for an internal bell to ring to let me knwow if I am doing
  good or not!
	

- For the last 2 months 

- I don't knwo what is good food and what is bad food and yet I see
  myself restricting myself to certain types of food. Feeling guilty
  that I crave them.
  
- Body pain

following a istathuku way of dealing with injuries, not well thougth
out maybe?

For example, I felt the same pain come back?

My back on somedays hurts like a bitch and yet I find myself giving it
the least amount of fucking attention at the end of the day. 

What should I be worried about and what not? Atleast go to a fucking
therapist.?

- I have not idea what to do in cardio, it took me ages to sit and
  find the time to buy a heart rate meter, but now I seek other
  statistics, or the point is the heart rate meter is alone not enough
  
- it's been a while I think I am barely seeing any lifting increases.
  I am soring out at every work out but is that enough, what am I doing wrong, Shouldn't
  I revisit what I am eating and not earing.
  
- I know I can go more times to the gym or save time during weekdays
  and clock more hours of work during the day for real work and yet
  .... and yet here I am going to the gym four times only on
  weekdays. My problem is that not that I going for 4 days, but
  atleast make a tradeoff or try. The internal reason why I think I am
  not going anywhereelse might quite baffle you? I think it is
  something alone the lines of new gym, NOPE. Or maybe one month I'll
  have to spend a few extra euros, just changing gyms with absolutely
  no consequence what so ever to time of travel or closeness to the
  work
  
- The point of persuation is that you have to be so and so or be
  around so and so and yet I crave social intimacy. I "cry" when I
  suck at a social convention. It hurts. Either I understand and move
  on or do something about it, or understand that there are greater
  things to pursue and that is it.
  
- I am behaving like sheldon, I hate change as it influences every
  single thing in my life.I have a set schedule a set way of doing
  things and I would like to stick to it no matter what.
  
- I stopped measureing my fat percentage

- going behind girls

	There is this girl and I keep pursuing her. She sometimes responds
    well, which makes me happy and sometimes not, which makes me
    sad. I suck with girls, but if it is something I should improve at
    then I better do something about it or if it doens't matter then I
    fucking give up
	
- indecisiveness 

	inability to make a fucking decision be it with home, buying a
    fucking computer, buying a heartrate machine, getting a room for
    rent, or paying more and getting shit done
	
	It always comes to the end of the day or the final moment before I
    can make that stupid decision or to a point of complete bullshit
    when I say fuck it lets go! 

- lack of priority
  
- today I am going to go to practice basketball at any cost, even
  though this week I have taken up a mamoth of a task to complete. I
  have also thought it wise to schedule a meeting which will
  most likely move on till the next day.
  
- I waste a lot of time at work, either the job sucks or there is no
  learning or what ever, and yet I have not taken any effort to make
  imporvements to it. Not feeling motivated to make changes.
  
- I am probably going to go back to india in my 60s and I think it
  would be very nice to invest in a sport like badminton as basketball
  is too pricy and farfetched with amassing the number of people
  required to get a good workout rolling. And the number of badminton
  courts are booming like crazy everywhere
  
- having learn't everything about persuation, why don't I apply
  anything? 
  
- procrastination

- At work there are many times when I find myself in a situation where
  I am about to fool myself. Like yesterday, with the filter. Either I
  figure it out or accept that I don't know. But I think I was hiding
  other the implication that the work I do is really straightforward
  and not advanced at all, just flushing a filter anyone can do.

Yes you are right we do judge things based on its impact. Ok then here
  goes, what is the impact of such a thing..
  
- how to gain traction in things that are not clearly defined, like
  writing a blog as opposed to working on say DS course.
  
  The same with applying for jobs! low feedback and high demanding work.

- what is the right decision? how to come to a verdict

	Someone accused me of something, I don't want to accpet it and
  hence engage in drama of a different kind! 
  
- overcoming biases

  P.S
  
  I started and stopped after 18 mins as this was hard and middle of
  the day for hard work! I don't like this! I usually sleep in the
  library in the middle of the day, not at work, but only at the library.
  
## Splitting examples

- postponing important decisions, procrastinating
  
  I know I don't have a house after the end of the month, but I am
  still somehow procrastinating until the real shit hits the room
  
  I knew there was a very good possibility that my company would go
  down into bankruptcy and then I would have only 3 months to look for
  a job. I don't even have a resume ready. I have been working on the
  dp book and some DS in the meanwhile. 
  
  All this with a very vague hope that I will somehow make it.
  
- poor understanding of consequences of actions

	I have upon me a daunting task of finishing an essay in one week,
    in a topic of very little experience. and yet today and yesterday
    I did not spent all the time to spend on it. I did other things
    like had a dinner with friends until 2 am from 8:00 pm and
    batchcooked and procrastinated further.
	
- inability to get focus or interested about tasks without immediate
  feedback
  
  Instead of what I am doing now with writing this essay, I would be
  happy to trade this for 6 hours of DS. I think this is because the
  course is structured, you get tons of feedback and time flies while
  working on problems. Literally.
  
- Lack of understanding of what is important and how to determine it
  and feel motivated to determine it
  
  So I read DS. I see these terms on probability distribution and I am
  like, well that's not clear. So I go deeper into a question. You can
  say that it is not required to go deeper as long as I am able to get
  100% in the exams. But exams are easily cheatable. If my sole goal
  is to crack the quiz it does not require dedicated understanding of
  the probability distribution. But yet I dived in deep until my
  internal bells went off or I felt satisfied about the the usage.
  
  I am not able to put this "internal bells thingy"
  
- buying and returning products
	
## 10 skills final attempt

### Accepting claims without evidence

Claims that I have accepted:
- Frozen food is good upto a month
- frozen food poses no health risks
- drinking protein shake twice a day for the rest of my life poses no
  health risk
- Any form of passive smoking is bad as fuck! Run! even if for a few
  seconds every day.
- eating teflon is not injurious to health
  
#### Accepting feelings as a substitute for evidence

I frequently come across this in writing. I say "I think ..." as a
form of escaping the legal ramifications in case I am not right. I go
on further with my reasoning from this statement I made with "I
think...". So these are just feelings.

While writing this essay I stumbled on the fact that the HRM is just
not enough to keep motivation, that I need more. And further went on
with concluding that I need to bring in intrinsic motivation. I think
I need goals to keep aiming for which would help in motivation. If
this is seen as a hypothesis then it is ok! I am afraid I take this
for granted.


<!-- needs work -->


### Not taking action despite evidence

So I see that I don't take any different action and do the same thing
over and over again and get disappointed.

I have never been able to wake up early, without having enough
sleep. Alteast I hated the times when I had to. HATED and it has
been the hardest. I want to aim for 8 hrs of sleep, which I find
is quite comfortable (or even my natural waking up period) And yet
on most days I spend time on youtube/porn before getting to the
point of sleep, around an hour from the point I am on the bed.

There are 2 silent rooms in the library. One which is close to the
entrance and the other far. If you have two people next to you
whispering you are fucking doomed. And many times you have people who
just start talking normally "forgetting that this is a silent
room". This means I have to go to them and ask them to stop
talking. This happens atleast 2-6 times in during my sessions and yes
I get distracted. And also people are moving about and whispering
quite loudly which you can't do anything about. On days when I have to
focus my motherfucking brain to the max. I would not sit here (exhibit
A). And yet day after day I come into the same room, all because, it
takes more time to go peepee at the bathroom. Firstly this is stupid
and secondly despite knowing this I still come here everyday and get
pissed everytime someone talks. I get mighty distracted. as on days
like today when it is really hard to focus and concentrate, everything
happening around me is so visible. I always think it is going to be
fine today I think.

In the library the zone outside somehow became a non-smoking zone. I
love the idea of it as I have driven myself to be scared of smokers
and smoke as I want to live long. Yet day after day, I look at these
people call them idiots in my head (as I don't want to engage in drama
and focus of the task at hand (maybe there are other reasons as well))
and move on. I could send a mail to the library for example (it's a
start). Why hasn't an Agent done that! I continue to be that grumpy
old lady.

Every time I go to the gym I see that my playlist is shit and I
hate wasting time in the gym setting things up. I just want to go
and perform and get out. Yet, day after day, I find myself in the
same freaking situation.

### inability to prioritize (procrastinating) despite the stakes

I don't have a house starting from the end of this month. My landlady
has asked me to leave but I like to believe that there is some
leeway. Despite the stakes I have taken up another assignment from an
STM. Despite the stakes I barely worked on it over the last few days,
attempting to do something "more important". The implications of not
having a house is more than just . I just avoid the topic and say that
I will figure it out later. By the end of this post I will have 10
days. :) If I have something to do, atleast outsource the work and pay
people to do it. you might have to pay more, but that's how it is
going to be.

The company where I work recently around 2 months ago had informed
that they didn't have money to pay people and that they were trying
real hard to pay the 250 people because of lack of investors. I was in
my head hoping (just like the others) that everything was going to be
ok. They did manage to pay the salary but then had no money after. 2
weeks before they said that the situation got a little worse. And two
weeks from then, there was no news. I have to find a job in 3 months
and that could be pretty hard. It's only when shit hits the roof I
would start panicking. I didn't even have a resume or attempt to write
one. 

I have a mamoth task in my hands of writing this essay, and yet I
don't want to break the dinner with friends I have in the night. I
didn't want to stop spending 3 hours on Data Science and 2 hrs
watching videos in the name of a break and to feel motivated. And
I came back home at 2:00 am the next day, knowing that I have to
batchcook and shop for food every single week.

What is important, work or dealing with my injury by spending 1 hr at
the phisio + 26 euros? The answer might surprise you. Every morning I
wake up with pain in my shoulder blade tip. Somedays I wake up because
of this pain in the first place. If this physio didn't help, atleast
get a doctors appointment or for heavens sake do something, like
logging to see what is causing the problem etc... I chose to stick to
my schedule of work, gym, library. Anything else I do will fuck with
this system, and how can I allow that?


### Making decisions based on effective impact

Do I need to buy a laptop? Do I need a heartrate meter? do I need a
rain coat? For all of the above I made the decision when shit hit the
roof. 

Making decision based on numbers. I tried to while buying a laptop. 

Biases... I always go for something that is in the middle. I can't go
for the cheapest one or the priciest one. When I bought the rain coat,
when I bought the heartrate meter. But in both cases it is about 20-30
euros that I can save. Let's not get into this. But what about your
laptop, I had to make a decision and with the minimum resources I made
what was possible. 

Making decisions on the house, making decision on jobs? Well that is
how I try to solve the problem. but when the unknowns get larger I
don't have a way to deal with it. 

In the end you just make decisions based on feelings or just pay a big
price to offset the decision making.

<!-- Scrap it or needs more work -->




### disparate view of money

My parents do this thing, where they sweat their asses off to save
150 rs but are happy to spend 1k on a dinner once in a while or 5k
wihout thought on a washbasin or 32 k on a new AC citing "heavy
costs" of repairing the AC. First point is you don't know until
you make a tradeoff on some assumptions regarding cost of
ac/year. They didn't do that.

I spent 200 Euros on a pair of shoes without much thought in India. I
don't think I would have dared to do this back here. Let me kick that
up a natchiappan. I spent 1000 euros in a month in India, without
flinching an eye, just uber, beer and shopping. I did things that I
would have said are fucking blasphemous if I did the same here. I
might say reasons like India daw! friends daw! Maybe things like I do
this only once in a year are reasons. Keeping all reasons aside, I
only want a way to know if it is ok or not. I just don't want to spend
or not spend. For example, having a budget for the year and sticking
to it is something that can tell me how certain tasks weigh! So there
my I might have an equivalent understanding of spending whether I am
in asia or europe.

Same thing the thought that goes into buying a hand sanitizer
which might cost 2.5 euros, hell let it even cost more than that!
Where is the hesitation comign from and I pretty much spend 1k
euros on a laptop.

Sometimes I am afraid there is a flaw in my thinking, I somehow
bring others value function into the my decision making. Which is
quite ridiculous. Mainly when making decisions with money! I am
ready to pay an agent 300 bucks for finding me a house. Whether
they work 3 hrs or 300 hrs is immeterial as long as you get a
house. In fact if there is a house without an agents fee then I
should probably take it even if it is 25 euros higher. I somehow
have this hard stop of 550 euros that I pulled out from no where.
My real question is what is the value of money?

Going to the phisio + 1 hr of work vs being with pain. 

I know I can go more times to the gym or save time during weekdays
and clock more hours of work during the day for real work and yet
.... and yet here I am going to the gym four times only on
weekdays. My problem is that not that I going for 4 days, but
atleast make a tradeoff or try. The internal reason why I think I am
not going anywhereelse might quite baffle you? I think it is
something alone the lines of new gym, NOPE. Or maybe one month I'll
have to spend a few extra euros, just changing gyms with absolutely
no consequence what so ever to time of travel or closeness to the
work




### Making right predictions

So I started cardio last september(2017), 3-4 pre week on average
in addition to sports (1-2 times a week). Immediately there came
the question of mathivanan. I think I understand the equation, so
I got my hands on a speedometer. It was not really good as the
wind was erratic and all those parameters became useless or not
representative. Biking on machines should make sense then right?
They give you stats such as current rpm and a cumilative calorie
count. With Biking I had to keep pushing unlike in running at the
gym where you are forced to keep speed by the machine. I thought
what I was missing was an "current avg number", a number that
would tell me where I was now as compared to my goal. 

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
...



### Lack of application of theory to action

I have other important things to deal with in life. I know the concept
of persuation. Considering the millions of lives dying in this world,
I for sure have things that I want to be persuaded about. I know it
was happening right in front of me, as I was hanging out with my
friends from school in chennai. All they talked about was girls and
how they got so many of them. There I am in the middle,  feeling like
a loser, feeling persuaded. I put myself in such situations over and
over again. I hang with couples here in NL (same thing). It makes you
want to have what they have. I think I even remember thinking that I
was so pious back in NL and that as soon as I came to chennai, I had a
wavering mind.

The point of persuation is that you have to be so and so or be
around so and so and yet I crave social intimacy. I "cry" when I
suck at a social convention. It hurts. Either I understand and move
on or do something about it, or understand that there are greater
things to pursue and that is it.

I try to apply the principles of not engaging in drama. Yet I find
myself brooding over silly things with no consequence from day
after. I try to run away from any drama causing situations and if they
do happen, .... I still find myself thinking about these things

I usually don't engage in drama, I get away from it or say sorry
even. But it still lingers around, I run situations in my head of
decimating that mother fucker. People are dicks, namma sakadaila kal
erinja namma maala than saru vilum. Today I got a mail from someone
who misconstrued the mail I sent, probably thought that I was ordering
them, someone who I guess likes to engage in drama as we call it. I
said sorry and would like to move on, but I keep thinking about
responses to tell him. Same with another colelague who misbehaved. I
still give him some ram. 

Needing the respect of other people in things other than what is
important for me, like telling them I am trying for this girl

<!-- need to write this much much better! -->

#### fear of being judged

In some cases they make absolutely no sense. 

- That my physio will say
  
  > oru udambula oru kodi vyaadhi ah?
  
- eating dinner at work, people will think I am so lame, lonely

- stretching in the library and everybody will think what the fuck am
  I doing. I would like to stretch after a session of writing.
  
- asking people to stop talking or smoking

### Inability to think I am wrong

I would never force myself to look into these aspects, if it were
not for an STM and his stupid missions. 

### Failing to explain things clearly

### inability to solve problems.

## 10 skills attempt 2

### accepting claims without evidence
	
Frozen food is good upto a month?
frozen food poses no health risks?
drinking protein shake 2ce a day for the rest of my life poses no
danger to my health?
How much passive smoking is injurious to health and sweating about
passive smoking while passing a smoking zone.

Right now I think I have the done the "best" regarding my taxes
and that it is straight forward from now on. But have I done the
best? How can I determine it? or is it even worth it? How do I
know without even comparing to another estimate of the taxes. Well
I do know roughly in the order of 6-7 k euros is what is
expected. I think I am ok with this.! I have spent quite some time
on it. My 2 other Friends have spent quite some time on it.

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
....

I write what I feel and what feels right! Sounds fucking dangerous
bruv! I assume so many things while I write, but I have no way to
check, maybe with some system in place? Oh man, Essay writin! I
use "I think" as a way to insert my uncertainity but I suspect
that I am already thinking of the problem in terms of intrinsic
motivation. But .... PNN!

I am afraid the problem is not really here. Maybe this is just
like a beginning thing to get stats, the rest should probably be
done in some other way. Maybe the problem is 2 fold.
	
### doing something despite evidence and hoping for results.

I have never been able to wake up early, without having enough
sleep. Alteast I hated the times when I had to. HATED and it has
been the hardest. I want to aim for 8 hrs of sleep, which I find
is quite comfortable (or even my natural waking up period) And yet
on most days I spend time on youtube/porn before getting to the
point of sleep, around an hour from the point I am on the bed.

There are 2 silent rooms in the library. One is where you will be
distracted by people actually talking in the silent room and you
might have to go to them and ask them to shut up. The other is
where the above can pretty much be avoided, except in some cases
due to sound proofing. I think there are many times when I get
distracted and have to walk up to people and ask them to shut
up. The other room is a little far, and feel lazy to go
there. Today I was particularly feeling pretty disturbed, I want
out or do I? I am thinking about what bimbos they are, how they
are spending their time on insta, Rather I want high focus. Fuck
what am I doing? There is also some evidence that on days that I
absolutefuckingly have to get shit done, I go to the farther room as
it allows me minimal distractions. I do it on important days then why
is today not so important?

In the library the zone outside somehow became a non-smoking
zone. I love the idea of it as I have driven myself to be scared
of smokers and smoke as I want to live long. Yet day after day, I
look at these people call them idiots in my head (as I don't want
to engage in drama and focus of the task at hand (maybe there are
other reasons as well)) and move on. I could send a mail to the
library for example? Why hasn't an Agent done that! I continue to
be that grumpy old lady. 

Every time I go to the gym I see that my playlist is shit and I
hate wasting time in the gym setting things up. I just want to go
and perform and get out. Yet, day after day, I find myself in the
same freaking situation.
	
### inability to prioritize (procrastination)

inability to prioritize what the hell is important based on the
stakes associated. worst is taking the chance to see how things
might work out. It might also just be an inability to compute the
stakes associated. (procrastination?)

not finding a house until the last moment or putting some extra
money to find a house considering the risks

not even starting to find/write my resume for a job, based on the
bankruptcy situation last week at my company. Although there might
have been some internal probability working, until I lost the job,
I wouldn't have se fire to my ass

I have a mamoth task in my hands of writing this essay, and yet I
don't want to break the dinner with friends I have in the night. I
didn't want to stop spending 3 hours on Data Science and 2 hrs
watching videos in the name of a break and to feel motivated. And
I came back home at 2:00 am the next day, knowing that I have to
batchcook and shop for food every single week

Injuries, Figuring out whats the deal with my pain, doing more,
either by understanding or by other things, or watching videos or
going back to the phisio to consult with her, something!

### Calculating the odds? based on impact? What decision do I have to
  make?

### Making the decisions that no one else can make! 

bla bla
	
### doing things without proper reasoning (irrational)

I don't know what is good food and what is bad food and yet I see
myself restricting myself to certain types of food. Feeling guilty
that I crave them. 

following a istathuku way of dealing with injuries, not well
thought out maybe? I look at pain the next time or the successive
time to tell me that I have really fucked up. Pain is my
feedback. I still have pain in my shoulder blade every time I wake
up! Look at the impact, atleast look at videos everytime before
you go to gym as during gym the time allocated is less. I keep
doing the same thing over and over again.

I am behaving like sheldon, I hate change as it influences every
single thing in my life.I have a set schedule a set way of doing
things and I would like to stick to it no matter what.

#### irrational tradeoffs, (money matters)

My parents do this thing, where they sweat their asses off to save
150 rs but are happy to spend 1k on a dinner once in a while or 5k
wihout thought on a washbasin or 32 k on a new AC citing "heavy
costs" of repairing the AC. First point is you don't know until
you make a tradeoff on some assumptions regarding cost of
ac/year. They didn't do that.

I spent 200 Euros on a pair of shoes without much thought in
India. I don't think I would have dared to do this back here. Let
me kick that up a natchiappan. I spent 1000 euros in a month in
India, without flinching an eye, just uber, beer. I did things
that I would have said are fucking blasphemous if I did the same
here. I might say reasons like India daw! friends daw! Maybe
things like I do this only once in a year are reasons. Keeping all
reasons aside, I only want a way to know if it is ok or not. I
just don't want to spend or not spend. For example, having a
budget for the year and sticking to it is something that can tell
me how certain tasks weigh! So there my I might have an equivalent
understanding of spending whether I am in asia or europe.

Same thing the thought that goes into buying a hand sanitizer
which might cost 2.5 euros, hell let it even cost more than that!
Where is the hesitation comign from and I pretty much spend 1k
euros on a laptop.

Sometimes I am afraid there is a flaw in my thinking, I somehow
bring others value function into the my decision making. Which is
quite ridiculous. Mainly when making decisions with money! I am
ready to pay an agent 300 bucks for finding me a house. Whether
they work 3 hrs or 300 hrs is immeterial as long as you get a
house. In fact if there is a house without an agents fee then I
should probably take it even if it is 25 euros higher. I somehow
have this hard stop of 550 euros that I pulled out from no where.
My real question is what is the value of money?

Going to the phisio + 1 hr of work vs being with pain. 

I know I can go more times to the gym or save time during weekdays
and clock more hours of work during the day for real work and yet
.... and yet here I am going to the gym four times only on
weekdays. My problem is that not that I going for 4 days, but
atleast make a tradeoff or try. The internal reason why I think I am
not going anywhereelse might quite baffle you? I think it is
something alone the lines of new gym, NOPE. Or maybe one month I'll
have to spend a few extra euros, just changing gyms with absolutely
no consequence what so ever to time of travel or closeness to the
work

	
### indecisiveness, until shit gets real.

I am working on it, but it took me a while to work on the
indecisiveness of what I was going to do regarding my career. I
spent all my energy on understanding it and trading off. After a
point I just make a decision.

Same with the heart rate meter, as soon as I found something that
fit my "budget" and necessities I should go buy something instead
of procrastinating on it for ever.
	
### following up

I said I should contact the 80k hours once I have written the
post. I am afraid of keeping track of the things that are most
important and need to be done. Does this even fit? I think the
most important things will loom around! Otherwise they aren't
important anyways.

### inability to make the right predictions  but rather optimizing?

So I started cardio last september(2017), 3-4 pre week on average
in addition to sports (1-2 times a week). Immediately there came
the question of mathivanan. I think I understand the equation, so
I got my hands on a speedometer. It was not really good as the
wind was erratic and all those parameters became useless or not
representative. Biking on machines should make sense then right?
They give you stats such as current rpm and a cumilative calorie
count. With Biking I had to keep pushing unlike in running at the
gym where you are forced to keep speed by the machine. I thought
what I was missing was an "current avg number", a number that
would tell me where I was now as compared to my goal. 

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
...


	
### theory to aravindaction 

The point of persuation is that you have to be so and so or be
around so and so and yet I crave social intimacy. I "cry" when I
suck at a social convention. It hurts. Either I understand and move
on or do something about it, or understand that there are greater
things to pursue and that is it.


	
### afraid of hearing the truth? or people making fun of me

oru udambula oru kodi vyaadhi ah? 

eating dinner at work

stretching in the library!

asking people to stop smoking!

### inability to think that something is or could be wrong with me

I would never force myself to look into these aspects, if it were
not for an STM and his stupid missions. What is the impact of this
though?
	
		
### Failing to explain things clearly

- At work many times I find myself in situations where I don't get
  across to others. I know I am fucking up midway as I start
  speaking. Specific instances is when I was working on a tolerance
  train and I was going in circles unable to understand if what I came
  up with is right or wrong. Problem is I was unable to communicate it
  to others. I tried. I sucked many times. or I was not able to prove
  or disprove something that I had in mind and was struggling to
  convey. Worse I couldn't get it done in the end and used some finer
  tolerances (a shame to me).
  
  Sometimes I speak to my DL and can't get the point across, as a
  result of the lack of clarity in my head, or in my speech which was
  not methodical or which didn't start from a basic point which would
  have allowed explanation later.
  
  Many other times, I might have to explain something to people
  especially my DL. I find myself confusing my DL or just blabbing and
  asking if it made sense (when it most likely did not). I think in
  this particular case I didn't want him to think that I am stupid and
  said some thing in a vague manner so that people don't
  understand. So I have been repeating such behaviour many times. So I
  don't know something, and I purposely steer the conversation away
  from it to not look like a fool in front of someone who thinks I am
  an expert. The bigger point is it keeps happening and I don't take
  any action. None. Either I accept it or take action. I do neither.
  
### ability to Solving problems

There are many questions that I need help with. for example...  "how
to gain traction in things that are not clearly defined, like writing
a blog as opposed to working on say DS course is less motivating"

I have no idea how to deal with this? Similarly the question with
motivation and cardio. I am just trying new things. I am not sure if
there is a better approach and what it is.

Instead of what I am doing now with writing this essay, I would be
happy to trade this for 6 hours of DS. I think this is because the
course is structured, you get tons of feedback and time flies while
working on problems. Literally. Solving such problems.

So I read DS. I see these terms on probability distribution and I am
like, well that's not clear. So I go deeper into a question. You can
say that it is not required to go deeper as long as I am able to get
100% in the exams. But exams are easily cheatable. If my sole goal
is to crack the quiz it does not require dedicated understanding of
the probability distribution. But yet I dived in deep until my
internal bells went off or I felt satisfied about the the usage.

Right now I do something, but what are the big pitfalls for such
things anyways.

### Improving motivation: solving problems

I would like to improve motivation on tasks and design tasks with
great feedback. How!

This I think is a very important question and I have been failing
quite a bit.

Be it with my cardio motivation, or motivation during work, motivation
during writing in the evening. 

DS I am very happy to do. There is tons of feedback. I know if I doing
right or not, not day after. I know now. Plus it is programming to get
results, so very motivating. I would any day choose it over writing
for example. 

Maybe I am missing other points as well. 

### Inability to keep track of large amount of data: solving problems

So I have been struggling big time with keeping track of the things I
say in the essay. I would like a methodical way of doing things. Right
now it is all over the place. I have identified some examples. From
there, I tried to classify them once and by the end of it, I am
exhausted and it has been only half hour. 

More time equals more work equals better essay. Brute force.


### poor understanding of consequences of actions

I have upon me a daunting task of finishing an essay in one week,
in a topic of very little experience. and yet today and yesterday
I did not spent all the time to spend on it. I did other things
like had a dinner with friends until 2 am from 8:00 pm and
batchcooked and procrastinated further.

## 10 skills attempt 1


- Procrastination

- lack of motivation to do i

- inability to solve problems, instead I postpone until god delivers
  the verdict

- Inability to act despite the evidence

	be it with going after girls, when clearly that girl is not going
    to work for me, 
	
- lack of effort in finding evidence

- making bad decisions based on biases

- inability to make decisions with a money

	understanding the tre value of money.
	
- falling prey to feelings

- inability to apply knowledge

	such as persuation
	
- inability to express
  
  as a mark of clarity or understanding or just a systematic way of
  explaining sumpin to sumone! especially when I talk to my DL.
  
  Confusing people as a result
  
- inability to make the choices that no one else can make!

- doing things without focus on the ultimate goal

	I stick to routine of basketball, but what is the whole point of
    this? should I be working on something else?
  
- critical thinking or scientific method

- becoming defensive immediately as soon as someone says something
  that I don't believe
  
- fear of being ridiculed as a result of not fully understanding
  something

- accepting things without proper investigation

	what is proper investigation
	
	Reading about things by an STM and just accepting them?  Like
		what? Persuation? are you telling me that the points were not
		convincing?
- inability to think in a structured manner to solve problems


- engaging in drama

	despite knowing I don't want to be engaged in it!

	
	
	
## Critical thinking

What to believe and what to do!


## Detailed DP steps

- point by point training sessions design something that is ideal to aim.
