---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Marriage - an epic conclusion for now(9)"
date: 05-06-2017 13:23
categories: The Beginning
permalink: /:title.html
---
#### Synopsis of the series

In the [first post of this series][marr_thej_1] I started with giving the very first reasons of what I thought of marriage. It already seemed that if I take the path of making more money and focussing on having a big impact on the world, I cannot marry. 

However, not assuming any of the above, it was attempted to understand marriage for any person in general. The full series except the [first post "Marriage - first impressions][marr_thej_1], until this post, can be thought of to be written in that manner.

My friend had sent a link to a thread in the year of 2012,  [“Married Men- Post here if you hate your life”][dont_marry]. Finally opened it up now and was pretty apalled by the number of people complainitng how marriage sucked for them. The more interesting part was that all these people said very similar things. I would guess there were ~180 comments in total, filled with pain informing how devastating marriage would be. Almost all the people complained about marriage. Very few were talking about having a good marriage. The introduction to this article was done in my [second post "Marriage - an online article][marr_thej_2].

The [third post "Marriage - detailing (3)] derives heavily from the same thread [“Married Men- Post here if you hate your life”][dont_marry]. Women in essence seem to have two faces, one is a pre-marriage phase and the other is a post-marriage face, where the way they behave is completely different and compared to the likes of Jekyl and hyde. Marriage seems to be a relationship insurance for women and not men.  So why marry?

In the [fourth post "Marriage - Sex][marr_thej_4], we attempt to investigate what is the plight of people regarding sex after marriage. In this post there are a few quotes from people regarding sex after marriage. I am still surprised that Craig of SS Music fame, who landed a hot wife complains regarding the lack of sex post marriage, owing to several things like, responsibility, and fatherhood. I am surprised because I would assume that guy is hot and charming and yet he complains. A couple of searches revealed in the end that around 50 to 80 times a year could be the average. The overwhelming dearth of people saying that sex kills after marriage, on the thread [“Married Men- Post here if you hate your life”][dont_marry], Webmd and Quora, makes me wanna conclude that there is a 50% chance that you will fuck 50 to 80 times a year, with the alternative being you will fuck less than once a week, or have no sex for a long long time (let's say a month).

>You’re just not in touch with my emotional needs as a woman enough for me to satisfy your physical needs as a man   
-someone in the thread

In the [next post "Marriage - details (5)][marr_thej_5] we discuss about Independent women and possibly how they can ruin a marriage further, Divorce rates being 50%, Lack of evidence regarding kids being problems and masturbation being frowned upon by the Feminists ;).

In the [following post " Marriage - old age (6)][marr_thej_6], oldage was discussed, where in the important points were that, all members of my family are quite healthy, and usually live until 80 and are capable of taking care of themselves. Loneliness and it's effects could be something that needs to be figured out later (Open Issue). Lastly, none of the people from [“Married Men- Post here if you hate your life”][dont_marry] thread, showed slight hesitation regarding breaking up the marriage on the grounds that they would feel lonely during old-age. None.

In the 7th post ["Marriage - Looking back at assumptions][marr_thej_7], we look back at one of the earlier assumptions, that lack of people commenting on the thread [“Married Men- Post here if you hate your life”][dont_marry], could also be because Married men who love their life didn't get their hands on the thread, with such a name.  For lack of knowledged regarding this and with the statistics that 50% of the marriages end in divorce, it is better to look at the latter statistic rather and look at thread [“Married Men- Post here if you hate your life”][dont_marry] for details regarding how people can be tortured by women, once they fall into the trap.

In the [8th post "Marriage - Alternatives to marriage"][marr_thej_8], we discuss some alternatives to marriage and the costs involved. Also discussed is why someone should not marry.

#### Why not-marriage:
There is a [50% chance that you will get a divorce][marr_thej_4], and a [50% chance that you will have a good sexual relationship(50 to 80 lays a year)][marr_thej_5] for the next 10 years. Fingers crossed! 

Irrespective of my background or the work I would like to do in the future, I see absolutely no merit to the institution of marriage.
It's is extremely pricey for the absolute shit it seems you get in return. Why would you a businessman make bad deals? I don't have one point, to add regarding why men should go for a marriage, other than for the sake of having kids. I know people who have kids even without being married, anyways. So it's not socially awkward or something. 

There seems to be an open issue regarding quantifying the feeling of companionship and its actual value. As that could be the only factor favoring the idea of marriage. But I can't imagine it being too good to change the scale in favor of marriage, especially considering that 50% of the marriages end in divorce, and and 70% of the second marriages end in divorce as well. I guess those people continue to move on with other relationships or stay single. 

I shall stand with my brothers who said the following:

>Marriage is for women, not men.

Not sure if it is for women or not, but seems not for me, not for any man.

>Modern marriage is nothing but relationship insurance for women. When they get married, they can have their kids which further keeps you in check.    
-someone in the thread ["Dont marry"][dont_marry]

Word.

#### Marriage for me
Given that marriage makes your life no better, why should i marry. I am not opposed to the idea of having a girlfriend, but marriage and all the bonds hencefoth, the kids and money spent and lost is especially not for me, neither is it for anyone.

Why would anyone want kids, considering that there are much more important issues to deal with, why bring more kids into the world. If I really have money, why not spend it on people who don't have a thing and improve their lives. Of course some people can hypothesize that my kids can do 10 times what I do with the right education and so on. But I am afraid, it is far from reality. I am completely opposite in thought from my parents. People do not succumb to rational arguments or reasoning. When living in such a world I fail to have any confidence in such a hypothesis. The effects of making two kids, spending shit loads of money on them and seeing it all go to waste in the end might not be good. And the worst part, good luck finding a wife who will be as thrifty as you, in saving and spending money.

I acknowledge that there are some open issues that I need to tackle. I will do them in the near future. I don't see them as potential points that will toplle my argument, but reality can be far different.

Peace!





# Open Issue
Why does my brother and all my cousins and parents think they should marry and go on to say that I should marry? odd!

People who marry look so happy outside! But they look so happy outside? Probability

taxes

Quantify the idea of companionship and take another look at old age!

Use probabilities and Present cost to put a monetary number on it.

[sex_stats]:http://healthresearchfunding.org/sexless-marriage-statistics/
[don't_marry]:https://dontmarry.wordpress.com/
[cryonics]:http://www.overcomingbias.com/2009/03/break-cryonics-down.html
[not_working]:http://mgtow.proboards.com/index.cgi?board=general&action=display&thread=415&page=1
[nl_mar_age]:http://www.iamexpat.nl/read-and-discuss/expat-page/news/the-dutch-getting-married-later-and-less-often
[daily_mail]:http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3536424/How-times-week-REALLY-having-sex.html
[every_day]:https://www.everydayfamily.com/how-often-do-normal-couples-have-sex/
[wiki_divorce]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divorce_demography
[scooby]:http://scoobysworkshop.com/bodybuilding-nutrition-made-simple/
[reddit_marr_men]:https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/31wlwy/serious_married_people_of_reddit_is_marriage_as/
[reddit_marr_men_2]:https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/473szp/why_men_hate_the_idea_of_marriage_so_much/
[reddit_marr_men_3]:https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2ftvmj/married_men_post_here_if_you_hate_your_life_tell/
[marr_thej]:/marriage(2).html
[marr_thej_1]:/marriage(1).html
[marr_thej_2]:/marriage(2).html
[marr_thej_3]:/marriage(3).html
[marr_thej_4]:/marriage(4).html
[marr_thej_5]:/marriage(5).html
[marr_thej_6]:/marriage(6).html
[marr_thej_7]:/marriage(7).html
[marr_thej_8]:/marriage(8).html
