---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "  Career- Focus area"
date:    24-11-2017 23:07
categories: drafts
permalink: /:title.html
published: True

---
[80k-one-person-diff]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/how-much-difference-can-one-person-make/

You know you can get a different education, or move to a job that pays more or grow the necessary skills to earn more or create more impact. This means more people eating food for more meals in their lives. YAY!

### Choosing an area to focus on

>The standard advice is to do whatever most interests you, and most people seem to end up working on whichever social problem first grabs their attention.

You cannot allow availability to choose for you what you should work on. You are not a stupid, you have science and you have tools to make better decisions or the best decisions given the available information.

Another important thing to realize is that you are young. You are looking at 80k hrs ahead of you to create impact. To have a fulfilling career you need [other things beside passion][80k-dream-job]. We should not worry about giving up things we like now or things that we are comfortable or even good at doing. If it requires us to move and do something new we shouldn't be too worried atleast looking at if things will be interesting/motivating. We can get interested about other things too.

In addition to this one must also consider his personal fit while choosing an area to work on. Of course, if all my life I have been an introvert, afraid to talk to people, maybe I should avoid tasks involving constantly meeting people and making an impression on them to help the organization fund-raise. I could better pro gramme and make more money to GIVE. But if that is what is needed, then we could develop the required skills with practice (needs to be investigated if the particular skill can come out of practice, sometimes your genes don't allow you to). With 'personal fit', I would consider things that I have a higher chance of grasping and getting into considering my history. I am 27 and would also need to consider that upto 30 years of age is my peak for learning new things at a fast pace. So the whole 'personal fit' for me would involve, looking at my history to decide which area I will have a high probability of success, without burning out, factoring in my current age as well. All these to make a decision about the area I would work on.

>Finally, factor in personal fit. We don’t think everyone should work on the number one problem. If you’re a great fit for an area, you might have over 10 times as much impact as in one that doesn’t motivate you. So this could easily change your personal ranking.

>Just remember there are many ways to help solve each problem, so it’s usually possible to find work you enjoy. Moreover, it’s easier to develop new passions than most people expect.

For example, for me, I suspect I am good at analytical problem solving, i.e., analyzing an issue and coming up with solutions, hypothesis etc... Going into law or medicine seems too far-fetched than say for example going into DATA science. Moving into Data science actually seems natural considering my background. Personal fit to me sounds like something in which (only) you (can) see which field/job has high probability to gain your interest without you burning out.

If you are a mathematician all your life, it would pay to use your skills say in data science or other high impact careers, instead of going in the direction of a philosophy degree I guess.

[80k-dream-job]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/job-satisfaction/

The career advice by [80k hrs][80k-uur] as follows:

>Big in scale: What’s the magnitude of this problem? How much does it affect people’s lives today? How much effect will solving it have in the long-run?

>Neglected: How many people and resources are already dedicated to tackling this problem? How well allocated are the resources that are currently being dedicated to the problem? Are there good reasons why markets or governments aren’t already making progress on this problem?

>Solvable: How easy would it be to make progress on this problem? Do interventions already exist to solve this problem effectively, and how strong is the evidence behind them?

>To find the problem you should work on, also consider, personal fit. Could you become motivated to work on this problem? If you’re later in your career, do you have relevant expertise?

The are basics that you want to consider while making a decision on which problem you want to work on.

### Worlds biggest problems that need your attention

So the [80k hrs][80k-uur] website suggests [a list][80k-list] of most pressing problems for me to work on. Taking the quiz on which problem ranking would change to suit my understanding of the universe, I think is a very wrong idea. I trust 80k's sincere research, judgment and their evaluation. In addition of course we look at the personal fit.

For lack of any other better way to shorten the list, I took the quiz and it suggested to me that I could work on the following:

- Global priority research
- Health in poor countries
- AI

All of the areas require funding. For some it is not really a bottleneck as explicitly mentioned by [80k hours][80k-list], but talent is. I guess with the next essay I will delve into what each area seems to need and how I see myself working in those areas.

But before that...

#### Earning to give

[givewell]:https://www.givewell.org/s
[giving-what-we-can]:https://www.givingwhatwecan.org/

Earning to give seems like a great option. Based on what needs funding at the moment you can funnel your savings into that particular source. I try to see myself in roles where I may fit and I suspect at max if I moved to data science, I could earn about 200k on a really good year of which 100k should be easy to give. Where I give this money, doesn't really seem to be the hard question now. Both [80k org][80k-uur] and [GiveWell][givewell] suggest places to where contributions would lead to huge impact. Every year I could re-evaluate my decision.

There seem to be not many people earning to give to the places with highest impact. About [3000 members][giving-what-we-can] only, have actually pledged the 10% to charity openly using the website. The way I see the pop up on 80k website often, especially in global prio research suggesting that they want to do one on one help, is only suggesting to me that- considering their budget of 115k pounds- that there are very few people working in the organization and probably very few people asking for help even. And Eleizers [less wrong website][less-wrong] despite having millions of viewers, fails to show up as donations in the [MIRI][less-wrong] donation page. Only 3000 donors have donated throughout its lifetime.

[less-wrong][https://intelligence.org/topcontributors/]

If [earning to give][80k-earning-to-give] is what we should be doing then, I want to earn much much more than what I do now.

>Which jobs are highest-paying?
In short, it’s jobs in finance, management, medicine, law, real estate and technology.

>What are some of the best options overall?
The following offer a good combination of pay, flexibility and outlook. We’ve also already advised people who’ve taken them and been satisfied.

>Tech startup founder
>Quantitative trading
>Some other promising options taken by plenty of people we’ve advised include:
>Software engineering
>Startup early employee
>Data science
>Management consulting

>Law, investment banking and medicine are other obvious high earning options, but we think they’re a bit worse than the ones above based on their weaker combination of flexibility, growth of the area and direct impact. Art and Entertainment can be highly paid, but the chances of success are sufficiently low that the pay is low on average

>Choose an employer that matches your donation 1:1

>You’re a good fit for a higher earning option. Don’t become a consultant if you’d hate it – you’ll be more likely to burn out and put your career in a worse long-term position, and you won’t earn that much anyway. Even if you only care about your impact, it’s important to be good at your job.

We need to think what is good for us in the long term.

>In fact, if you’re especially focused on the global problems we think are most pressing, especially within the effective altruism community, then we don’t think earning to give should be your first choice. This is because these areas seem more talent constrained than funding constrained. Instead, we recommend trying to first contribute directly, in effective non-profits, government or research.

Red flag? [80k org][80k-uur] suggesting to first contribute directly in effective non-profits, government or research. This means that I should atleast consider other things than earning-to-give

Next I guess it would be nice to do a compilation of the jobs and their impact. A post involving different profiles and what [80k org][80k-uur] suggests and a path for you to achieve it. This could be followed on with more realistic examples which would come out of interviewing people you know.

[80k-earning-to-give]:https://80000hours.org/articles/earning-to-give/#whats-the-best-way-to-earn-to-give

<!--

>You want to gain skills in a higher earning option (for use in more direct work later on), and earning to give could help you to stay engaged with social impact while you do so. (In the next article we explain why it’s important to gain “career capital”.)
You’re very uncertain about which problems are most pressing. Earning to give provides the most flexibility because you can easily change where you donate, or even save the money and give later.
You want to contribute to an area that is more funding-constrained rather than talent constrained.

In fact, if you’re especially focused on the global problems we think are most pressing, especially within the effective altruism community, then we don’t think earning to give should be your first choice. This is because these areas seem more talent constrained than funding constrained. Instead, we recommend trying to first contribute directly, in effective non-profits, government or research.

More red flags,  dont make it your first option.

Earning to give is recommended only if it is a good fit. And for example, the current job or data science, both should work well I suspect!


[80k-list]:https://80000hours.org/articles/cause-selection/



https://80000hours.org/articles/earning-to-give/#whats-the-best-way-to-earn-to-give

>Look for an option where you have great personal fit – the chance to excel – that satisfies the following:

>Is higher-earning, and has a good outlook.
Offers flexible career capital, so you can switch out later if you change your mind.
Doesn’t cause harm



What are some of the best options overall?
The following offer a good combination of pay, flexibility and outlook. We’ve also already advised people who’ve taken them and been satisfied.
.
These two paths are among the highest earning and build your skills, although they are very competitive.
.
Tech startup founder
Quantitative trading
Some other promising options taken by plenty of people we’ve advised include:
.
Software engineering
Startup early employee
Data science
Management consulting

>Law, investment banking and medicine are other obvious high earning options, but we think they’re a bit worse than the ones above based on their weaker combination of flexibility, growth of the area and direct impact. Art and Entertainment can be highly paid, but the chances of success are sufficiently low that the pay is low on average

>Choose an employer that matches your donation 1:1

### My profile
I look at all my friends, and the best case reachable example, is in the next few years earning 200k a year and donating around 100k, by working on data science. Maybe it is not too late to do my studies again. I have no idea how feasible this is. I have to move countries, to start with and I am already 26, not sure how much of a criterion age is.

I enjoy going deep into engineering. Answering questions or highly fundamental things, or predicting soluitions for the reality, learning about things that I think are crazy (like designing a machine where in two objects are positioned at an accuracy of 100 micron, and people are able to solve complex matters). I would love to write code. I see that I have no affinity towards management. I am an engineering guy and I like solving problems. In my free time I would like to organize events ror birthdays.

Recently I found myself thinking about not leaveing the place I work at as things are slowly getting more complex and interesting. Rather, I think I it takes some time to get up to speed before you go deeper into the complex dynamcis of the machine that works with electrons, I would easily I feel would love to be the guy developing concepts day in and day out which result in high impact solutions for my company.

Anything challenging is welcome I guess with the addition that I would like to stay in it for a bit long, as I can become really good at it. And that everything takes time. If its not lithography or vacuum design its going to be some thing else. I don't want to sabotage the rest of my life because of the decision I took to be in this field only for one year now. Always measure in impact. But currently I am trying to understand personal fit.

I suspect doing a phd or doing things in mathematics or economics or statistics, sounds quite interesting. My point being I can. However, I need to admit although I might have good grades  in particular subjects, I didn't actually understand every single detail of it. Especially maths, parts with all the different type of domains, I never really got them. All over, I think I kept lacking some information with regard to maths. But despite my handicap, if grades were any indication, I did score quite good in subject related to dynamcis, numerical methods, all involving matrices. Even with dynamics, the ultra basics for me is shaky. For example how does the equation of perturbation even work. Why does it work? At some point you see it works and you just accept such things.

How about I do some courses in economics.i.e., look at the most pressing problem, and if they say they don't really need mopney (money is not the bottle neck) and if they say they need researchers, why not I try to be one. I suspect it is as far-fetched as becoming a data-scientist. As in both cases an eghx has to branch to a new field spend some time there and then bolt to the US. With Economics however, I guess I can apply for a phd. The good bad and the most ugly question is why would anyone in their right mind offer you a phd instead of TOM DICK and HARRY who have done their bachelors in economics. I don't know the first thing about it. but I can learn?

Maybe I can start with a masters course and convert it to a phd? What about funding? MAn this is going to be so hard to come up with some answer regarding what I am going to do in the future.

And why did an stm say just do profiles of people you know, that should give you a good idea on what you could do and how to move to the US.

I see that I could also go in the way I am going, and slowly branch to managing high impact projects which will involve both technical and manegerial skills.

#### Skillsets

My current skillsets are being able to work in new new topics repeatedly, mild python scripting knowledge, design knowldege, problem solving analytical, Worked in the precision industry for over a year.

### Over 30 years learning new things how to use?

#### Global priorities research

Most needed are researchers, and in particular:

Researchers trained in economics, mathematics, or philosophy to develop the methodology for setting global priorities.
Researchers trained in social and natural sciences with the ability to collect data and analyse specific global problems.
and people who can do research and manegirial works.

The idea is to be of real high impact by helping other researchers and the research group to keep focus and prioritize what is important. You could also publish. My grade of 7.5/10 for my master thesis is not representative of the work I put in or the success of my project. The research direction didn't come from me, as I barely had experience in it. I trusted the faculty to give me a good assignment. Unfortunately, it was more about taking an idea and implementing it to see if it works. Went quite deep into linear algebra. I did a lot of coding, and read a lot of papers. Did everything I could with my time to solve the issue. I dived heavily into the theory, but unfortunately, I didn't think of some fundamental things that questioned the need of my research or the use of it. My goal was not to do research unfortunately, my goal was to learn from the best and learn as much as I could. I spent several hours a day working on python, I spent several months understanding the fundamentals and why things came about. But I do think I am work slow (citation needed, compared to what?)

My point is I learn quick, I work hard when I have a personal stake in the situation. I am sure I can step up and with long time spent on it I can definitely kill. Every extra hour I spend at work would mean more impact and that would be life, essentially. So great.

My current boss thinks I work fast, I pick up things quickly. He didn't expect me to finish the project I had started at the beginning of the job within one month, but guess what. I stepped in for several projects and delivered results according to him at pretty good speed. From knowing nothing in a project, I have delivered, and I continue to deliver, its everyday bro.

But, I don't have an economics degree/math/philosophy. In fact economics is something that I have never done. Managing I guess I can. I have never really done it though, other than organising events and some leadership here and there. I am NOT a natural leader, I don't always lead, it depends on the 'status' at a location. If people are indecisive, I can tell them what to do.

Off the bat they say money is not really the bottle neck here. Of course I could donate, but
#### Health in poor countries

A very close to my heart kind of thing. Every human can connect with it.

> Every year around ten million people in poorer countries die of illnesses that can be very cheaply prevented or managed, including malaria, HIV, tuberculosis and diarrhoea. Tens of millions more suffer from persistent undernutrition or parasitic diseases that cause them to be less mentally and physically capable than they otherwise would be.

>Options for working on the problem include serving as a donor to effective projects, working as an economist in intergovernmental organizations such as the World Bank or World Health Organization, or starting or working in a non-profit that scales up proven treatments.

Wow, is economics king? Everywhere they seem to need economists, I guess one creates more impact not by donating, but by working effectively. Period. Wow the work that 80k hrs is doing is incredible. I could be that economist.

An idea could be during the month that I am in india, I could do a course in economics and a course in data science. I am quite inclined to do these as it would free me from the burden of writing. and I honestly wouldn't mind working on these for 4 hrs a day even. Have some pretty decent deadlines and in those 36 days actually crack something.

These two seem to repeating themselves time and again and show themselves in diffenet colors. As a data scientist I could always work on other problems elsewhere with the power I wield.

No points for guessing that somehow an economics phd will help!

>What skill sets and resources are most needed?
The ability to fundraise large sums, or move money within bureaucracies to better projects.
People with on-the-ground logistical skills in international development (i.e. the kind of person who could get 100,000 malaria nets distributed in Africa).
Entrepreneurs (mostly in non-profits but also sometimes for-profits) who could found one of these charities.
Development economists and cost-effectiveness researchers, including economists, statisticians and disease control experts.
Money to fund GiveWell recommended charities.
We think that people capable of starting outstanding projects in this area are likely to be able to attract the necessary funding, making the area mostly talent constrained.

Of course donating is an option, but it needs to be evaluated what could be my contribution. For example, maybe I can hire to economicians to work on this topic for me. How about that?

Impression I get, money is not really the problem, this problem is only sometimes recommended.

I will come back to this, having first gone a full circle on what needs to be done in this world to begin with?

#### Artificail intelligence

Looking at [this video][ai-video] it definitely puts the fear of AI into everybody. The arguments made are strong. A gist is that AI has all the necessary ingredients to become the next industrial revolution. The growth would be super quick, once stable AI is made that can think for itself. The issue lies in understanding what should be the morals of an AI. Cause the AI can quickly become too powerful as it has an almost infinite memory and it can possibly not be controlled. When wielded right it could be the most powerful.


Looking at this the picture I get is that I can't reallyu work for it other than in a manegerial role, a role that brings huge funding and the like. Economists don't really haave a role but policy makers are also wanted here.

Earning to give is an option. There seems to be a surplus with big institutions that would typically get academic funding, but there is hardly any with orgs like MIRI. Donating to them is still an option.




[ai-video]:https://youtu.be/MnT1xgZgkpk



#### summary
There are many ways you can contribute, Currently I see a large focus on economics to actually provide relief to regions like 'global prio research' and health in poor countries.

Donating is surely an option to every important scenario. But maybe as I am in my prime can do more.

Another option would be to work in the capacity of manager to assist people do high level tasks, while you prioritize the actual useful work needed to be done.

Managerial qualities, economics, data science are three things that seem to appear everywhere that can actually do good to the community.

Imagine doing a couple of courses online in economics and then actually following it up with a phd and a job. And at 40's say when you have spent enough time on the science, you can put your forces to actually help people in need more directly.

Currently I am going to move on further and explore career capital and the like, before actually making a more profound statement on this.


Do a summary on profiles enxt week, the different profiles next week, considering earning to give is an option.
---

>However, his focus on climate change wasn’t the result of a careful comparison of the pros and cons of different areas. Rather, by his own admission, he’d happened to read about it, and found it engaging because it was sciency and he was geeky.

>The problem with this approach is that you might happen to stumble across an area that’s just not that big, important or easy to make progress on. You’re also much more likely to stumble across the problems that already receive the most attention, which makes them lower impact.

>The nuclear power stations will all be switched off in a few years. How can we keep Britain’s lights on? …unplug your mobile-phone charger when it’s not in use.


---

>Finally, factor in personal fit. We don’t think everyone should work on the number one problem. If you’re a great fit for an area, you might have over 10 times as much impact as in one that doesn’t motivate you. So this could easily change your personal ranking.

Just remember there are many ways to help solve each problem, so it’s usually possible to find work you enjoy. Moreover, it’s easier to develop new passions than most people expect.

Despite all the uncertainties, your choice of problem might be the single biggest decision in determining your impact.

>if you want to do good in the world, it’s worth really taking the time to learn about different global problems, and how you might contribute to them. It takes time, and there’s a lot to learn, but it’s hard to imagine anything more interesting, or more important.


>Apply this to your own career
Using the resources above, write down the three global problems that you think are most pressing for you to work on. Your personal list will depend on your values, empirical assumptions, and personal fit with the areas.

For each problem, list out some specific career options you could take that would help the problem. You can get ideas in our profiles, as well as further reading on each area. Also remember you can contribute to any problem area through donations and advocacy, even if it’s not the focus of your day job.

This list of problems is just a starting point. The next step is to find concrete career options that will make a difference within the area, which we cover in the next article, then to find an option with excellent personal fit, which we also cover later.

-->
[career-1]:/career.html
[career-2]:/career(2).html
[80k-uur]:https://80000hours.org/career-guide/how-much-difference-can-one-person-make/
