---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  " Marriage - detailing (3)"
date: 29-05-2017 20:29
categories: The Beginning
permalink: /:title.html
---

#### **Article**
Women are going to be nagging bitches after marriage. They are like jekyll and hyde, i.e, they have two faces, one post-marriage and one pre-marriage. They use sex to get things done. They are going to spend your money on useless shit. They are going to get fat and ugly! Once anyone applies for divorce half of the shit goes to them. 

Bottom line: Most people in the [article we were discussing yesterday][dont_marry] seem to hate their marriages. It literally doesn't matter why!

>A statistical impossibility for ALL the men in this thread to have married the “wrong woman”.  
-someone in the thread

Marriage anybody?   
Bite me!

#### Relationship insurance!
>Modern marriage is nothing but relationship insurance for women. When they get married, they can have their kids which further keeps you in check.

The typical process in countries like Netherlands (where arranged marriage is not IN), is to find a girl, date her for a while, then live-in with her and then marry. Why not live-in forever. What do you need to marry?

Women on getting old, find it hard to attract men I guess. It makes sense that they want to find someone and settle down with security be it financial or emotional, at their peak time. [Average age for women to get married in Netherlands][nl_mar_avg] in 2011 was 34. They can still be hot and wouldn't be too late to have kids at that age I guess.

For women it seems like it is a good idea to get married. It's relationship insurance. Before marriage, it seems like both the man and the women have to do work to keep the relationship going. For example, women keep at sex, offer blowjobs, keep fit, and try to look good and so on. The man, providing for her, giving her gifts I guess, and being there for her and so on. If she gives you shit, you can leave her. If you give her shit, she can leave you. Once married, the tables have turned. It's not equal anymore. The man cannot leave the relationship so easily. Women have huge hand after marriage. What I mean by that is even if they cheat and hence it comes to a divorce, they get fucking half of everything, and the custody of kids and so on. You have to keep paying for alimony and shit. It's not equal anymore. In a relationship, both the male and female have to work to keep the relationship going. Whereas with marriage, the female can slack a lot as she has the hand. 

>My wife was a complete off the wall fuck machine before we got married. Fun, energetic, beautiful. Now? Overweight, tired all the time, and forget a goddamn blowjob. Counting down the days…oh yes indeed.

If you had the freedom to choose between an upper hand or a lower hand in a deal what would you do? What should you do?

# Open Issue
Why does my brother and all my cousins and parents think they should marry and go on to say that I should marry? odd!

People who marry look so happy outside! But they look so happy outside? Probability


[sex_stats]:http://healthresearchfunding.org/sexless-marriage-statistics/
[dont_marry]:https://dontmarry.wordpress.com/
[cryonics]:http://www.overcomingbias.com/2009/03/break-cryonics-down.html
[not_working]:http://mgtow.proboards.com/index.cgi?board=general&action=display&thread=415&page=1
[nl_mar_age]:http://www.iamexpat.nl/read-and-discuss/expat-page/news/the-dutch-getting-married-later-and-less-often
