---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  " "
date:    14-05-2018 20:56
categories: drafts
permalink: /:title.html
published: False
---

**Entry question:**

What does one need to get a scholarship to RSM?

Corollary: List profiles online who have received scholorship :)




In a post looked at earlier, [MBA](/mba.html), we had a look at what an MBA
means and we look at different universities where it would be
possible to do an MBA.

I don't have money and I don't want to gamble with what I have right
now, or what I could possibly save. 

I would like a scholarship at a great university, which would properl
me to great heights there after. 

## Executing the plan

### RSM

Write to finaid@rsm.nl

Write to nadya from ASML? why?

Written to Rawan

Found website for grants
https://www.studyinholland.nl/scholarships/find-a-scholarship?facet.query=modified%3A%5BNOW-7DAY%2FDAY+TO+NOW%2FDAY%2B1DAY%5D&facet.query=modified%3A%5BNOW-1MONTH%2FDAY+TO+NOW%2FDAY%2B1DAY%5D&facet.query=modified%3A%5BNOW-1YEAR%2FDAY+TO+NOW%2FDAY%2B1DAY%5D&facet.query=modified%3A%5B%2A+TO+NOW-1YEAR%2FDAY%5D&fq=getCountries%3A%22India%22&facet.field=getAudiences&facet.field=getField_of_study&facet.field=getPurpose



**Need to find people with scholarships from RSM and insead and get their profile thats
all!**

Also contact nuffic and make contact to see if there is any sources
that they can help you with? such as a list of students who got
scholarship? AS rawan got a nuffic neso scholarship.


Look at their profile, ultimately just ask them what was their gmat
score. You do realize that this is futile as you don't know how to
compare or add or talk about other merits. So it probably is best
talking to people who have had  scholarships and see how they acheived
it and what I might need to do.




Hi Rawan, 

Your profile is very impressive. Thank You very much for accepting my request.

Currently I am an engineer in a startup in holland and am looking at
doing my MBA in 2020. The only way I see myself able to afford an MBA
is with a scholarship. I am pre-emptively looking for signals that
inform me how to be scholarship-worthy at a prestigious school like
RSM.

I would like to see the profile of a few more people who have gotten a
scholarship at RSM, to get a better idea what I should aim to look
like. Would it be possible to name a few?

What was your 
What would be a good GMAT score? What do other scholarship profiles
look like? How should I go about being Scholarship-worthy?

Should I change jobs?  What are the things I can
improve on? This is the direction I am trying to go in

To start off, I would like to see the profile of a few other people
who have gotten a scholarship at RSM, so I get a better idea what I
should aim to look like. Would it be possible to name a few?  I am
looking for some advice on these lines.

I am looking to do an MBA as I see its potential in allowing me to do
a vast array of things, ability to learn and grow, and the exit
opportunities available in case things get out of hand. My larger
picture would be to found NGO's such as AFM to produce cost-effective
interventions to improve lives be it in health, poverty or . or work with them to  save as many lives
as possible.  Being an technical engineer certainly doesn't
equip me to face the challenges that might be ahead.


Hi Rawan,

Your profile is very impressive. Thank You very much for accepting my
request.

Currently I am an engineer in a startup in holland and am looking at
doing my MBA in 2020. An MBA opens up to many many avenues that I
could not reach normally. As you said in your testimonial in RSM website, a
scholarship is not only about financial ease, it is much more than
that. And I want to be just that.

The following are the things I would like to hear from you:

What is a good GMAT score? Can you give me some advice on what I might
need to do to be scholarship-worthy? Do you know other student
profiles that have gotten scholarships?

If you would like a better platform address this, you can mail me or
we can schedule even schedule a skype meeting.

Many thanks for accepting my request. Hope to hear from you.

Thej.



I would like to do an MBA to have a much bigger impact in the world than being an
engineer. The growth is slow or non-existant, and unfortunately I find
that experience after a point does not matter at all.

I am currently plannning my next steps, and realize that the only way
of doing an MBA for me would be with a Scholarship. From your
perspective are there things that one can do to secure a scholarship. 

Currently I am an Engineer in a startup in holland and yet to give my
GMAT. Might sound very pre-emptive, but I want to try and obtain
information regarding If I am aiming just too high, in which case I
will look at alternatives or try to move to another job that might aid 


I am currently planning my next steps, and realize that an MBA has
great potential to grow in my career

## Plan

- Look at top universities
- Look at effectiveness of MBA as an executive?
- Speak to this guys roheth!
- jot down some profilen
- Look at students who have done an MBA with scholarship and their
  past
- See what I can find online

but ultimately, what will get me into top uni's and how?



# Everybody

Prospects after an MBA

## koushik

exit opportunities from shell?

What is the plan?

How can I get into shell?

Are there other companies I can look at?

## Fardin

How to get into RSB?

Jobs ?

## RAM

Prospects

What is finance?

Where can I go after an MBA

What about MBA in India?

Exit opportunities in india?


Finance: 

Trading? Stock broking.. wolf of wall street

supporting new york 


Investement banking- coverage groups- industry- TMT - diff areas

What is investment banking?

Consultancy to clients --> mergers and acq .. capital structure
decision... any sort of fund raising.. IPO private going
public... raising capital.. 

IB --> implement ideas or help executing it! high margin businees, 28
days a month! newyork.. 80 hrs a week.. 

Asset management--> 


Stock broking and trading on behalf of clients-- > Lucrative ..only market hours...

sales and trading--> 

Private equity -->  everyone in IB want to go to and retire!

why did you di an MBA? 

Invest in business


key to a gate multiple avenues1

finance marketting sales 

65 to 70 hrs  in middle end!


Front end analyst--> difficult to get into one! MBA from IIM ABC

make a move to new york 

private equity... is a client of an investment bank




what is my logical next step


What ahbout the job? how interesting is it? 


2 years and leave IB! private equity! 

best job in finance corporate finance!


other countries? 

30 lakhs and upwards IIMABC 60 80%

Exit opportunities? 

Research.... data analysis...

I wouldn tthink you would be cut out for 

doing an good GMAT--> 760  good SOP social welfare...

MBA analysts

UNDERGRAD junior anayst

Do MBA

CAT/

BOOTH


executive MBA -->  not worth it! recruiters dont value atleast in
India ... 

if not you who else, you are cut out for big things!


### Rohan


Why I think MBA is what I need to do?

exit opportunities, gaining career capital, I want to found , growth,
stage interventions etc... Wide opportunity to branch to other things
with larger scope

more valuable with experience


Right now I am thinking in the lines of management consulting and IB
in the form of an analyst!


**What do you do?**

why mba?


## Why MBA??


## What are my options?
MBA in india us or europ?


## What are my options for scholarship?



GMAT, profile of other people you know?

Europe vs US?


### MBA 

150k$ needed for an MBA! Bits! Smasung! 4 years! mobile apps! bored! people person!

product management! MBA Kelly school of bussinnews! whirpool! faster
moving pace! 

Analytics! Mu sigma! 2.5 years ,,... As engament manager!


Who is an engagement manager!

On-site realtor.com! Analytics!


Everybit of MBA loved! focus more on CS, 

Product manageen!


Volenteering activities: ---

commited and they don't pay you! 




## US! Suggestions? how?


## No MBA in US

OPT 12 months! convert from an MBA; MS... 40k


## MBA


With MBA in Europe, to go to 

Probaility!

TOp 50! evidence of scholoorships in... 

Profiles of scholarship worthy! kelly school of business

700/800 35k scholarhsip! ASU, Free-ride!

760/770! Leader in assocaitions and clubs... leading inivtiatives
within samsung, south korea, work on galaxy phone!
