---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Deliberate Practice"
date:    29-09-2018 
categories: drafts
tags: dp, practice, deliberate-practice 
permalink: /:title.html
published: True
---

**Mission:** Write a 3k-word summary of the book "Talent is Overrated"
showing how to apply its techniques to at least three important,
real-world problems. Mission duration: 1 week. By next Friday before
12:00 pm.

## Plan

total: 74k words 217 pages (3689 locations in kindle)
Perhour at 170 wpm: 7.25 hrs 29 pages 508.82 locations
perhour at 160 wpm: 7.78 hrs 28 pages 474 locations
perhour at 130 wpm: 9.48 hrs 22 pages 389 locations


Estimated time for completion: 7 hrs +- 3hrs Weekend at any cost.

5 days to write and edit: 15 hrs

1.5 day summary

1.5 day analysis dealing with 3 real world problems

2 days refining it to ~3k words.
  * 
  
## Summary

### Chapter 1: The mystery

There is always an explanation that talent is an inborn thing but the
proposal lacks all evidence. It fails blatently in many places. How
are those people so high achieving? Talent? Intelligence?

Hardwork? 
### Chapter 2: Talent is overrated

Here the talk is mainly about looking into some of the greatest in all
industries like Tiger Woods and Mozart and examining closely if there
was that spark in the early age. But in all cases examined, we see
that there was interest (Waren Buffet), from an early age, lots of
exposure and practice at an early age. The time of reasonable success
is examined. and also in the case of mozart the percocity index is
much lower than current school goers as is with other industries as
well due to much better training methodologies.

But as the author concludes, talent or a gene for a particular field
might not be relavant is clear. But, what about IQ and smartness. One
cannot but think otherwise, that all these greatest of the greats,
were smart as fuck in terms of intelligence and memory. They should
have had crazy ability in Interlligence and memory right?

### Chapter 3:


>hat extraordinary natural general abilities— as distinct from
>developed abilities like SF's memory—are necessary for high
>achievement. 


>The idea that it's an inborn gift for cost accounting or writing
software or trading cocoa futures doesn't seem to hold up. Harder to
believe is that it isn't even more general cognitive abilities. That's
what the research is telling us, but it's so counterintuitive that it
requires some explanation.

>expert handicappers used models that were far more complex than what
the nonexperts used, so-called multiplicative models in which the
values of some factors (such as track condition) altered the
importance of others (such as last-race speed)


> IQ is a decent predictor of performance on an unfamiliar task, but
once a person has been at a job for a few years, IQ predicts littel or
nothing about performance.

>But what the
research suggests very strongly is that the link between intelligence and
high achievement isn't nearly as powerful as we commonly suppose.



Memory

>Yet a large mass of more recent evidence shows that memory ability is
acquired, and it can be acquired by pretty much anyone.

>A different type of research reinforces the finding that memory is
developed, not innate. W


>SF's in- credible memory did not extend beyond the specific task he
had prac- ticed. When he was read lists of random consonants instead
of random digits, his memory was no better than yours or mine.  In
short, the widespread view that highly accomplished people have
tremendous memories is in one sense justified—they often astound us
with what they can remember. But the view that their amazing ability
is a rare natural gift is not justifie

It is not clear what the author is saying.. if mckiensy is worng? but
waht does mckensy need. POssibly that Mc is testing for intellegence
SATs and shit, where as that is not indicative of anything. IQ and
memory are not the best test for cognitive abilities. i.e., cognitively
complex forms of multivariate reasoning." 

 It's certainly true that
McKinsey, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Google, and other top companies
are looking explicitly for brainiacs above all. But it's striking to notice
the companies that don't put extreme . Is it a surprise at all that GE
doesn't have people who really work in the top elite schools?

personality traits and success...

> It's certainly true that McKinsey, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Google,
and other top companies are looking explicitly for brainiacs above
all. But it's striking to notice the companies that don't put extreme

>But of course
that doesn't necessarily limit a person's achievement; it may limit only
48
How Smart Do You Have to Be?
the fields in which a person is most likely to excel. 

So what is stopping us?

>At this point you can't help but wonder if there's anything at all
(a) that makes a significant difference to whether you achieve
extraordinary performance, and (b) that you can't do anything
about. The answer is yes, of course there is.


>What's surprising is that when it comes to innate, unalterable limits
on what healthy adults can achieve, anything beyond those physical
constraints is in dispute. Clear evidence that such nonphysical
constraints exist has not been found so far.

>The roadblocks we face seem to be mostly imaginary.

Podu thagida thagida


### A Better Idea

Why Jerry Rice was so spectacular. Why his workouts were not told to
anyone as people would hurt themselves.

ITs all about the great study of diff violinist groups. 3 groups to be
precise. and how the number of hard hours clocked all their life
mattered to be where they were. And a point constantly brought about
was how not fun the practice was, it was draining energy and so
required more sleep.


They use the word deliberate practice here and 

Other than physical limitations it appears that there are not really
any limits to us acehiving the peaks of success.

### Deliberate practice

Seems like one of the important chapters to re-read.

WE do random things and work on few of the 5k things and call it
practice.

Characteristics of deliberate practice are seen in this chapter.

Example of chris rock the comedian and how to be the greatest
comedian. How to design your deliberate practice only once you have
reached the heights.


How hard it is in business to get feedback and those shots to practice
often


### How deliberate practice works.


This chapter starts off by introducing the concept of what
characteristics we see in DP'ers. Things like they see more, they know
more etc... Look at chess players playing 49 games all at once and
blindfolded. How they see certain information to get more knowledge
and .

Short-term-memory is short lived and the same for everyone but
long-term-memory is developed over time with more and more
uncomfortable DP. Retreival structure etc... What we see as important
is diff from what they see as important.

>In the letters-versus-words analogy, it isn't just that novices see
letters while experts see words; the experts also know the meanings of
the words.

Something about programmers wrtiting better programs as a result of
creating better structures by understanding the patterns of
structures.

The changes that happen are much more than phisical.

>This effect is not the obvious one in which a person's muscles get
bigger as a result of weight training, for example, but rather
involves characteristics that most people might think couldn't be
changed. En- durance runners, for instance, have larger than average
hearts, an at- tribute that most of us see as one of the natural
advantages with which they were blessed. But no, research has shown
that their hearts grow after years of intensive training; when they
stop training, their hearts revert toward normal size.

With changes to the cerebral cortex for kids practicing music to further.

>It's significant that myelination is a slow process. Building up
myelin over a nerve fiber that controls, say, hitting a particular
piano key in a particular way involves sending the appropriate signal
through that fiber over and over. This process of building up myelin
by sending 103 Talent Is Overrated signals through nerve fibers, which
occurs in purely intellectual fields like business as well as in
sports and music, needs to happen millions of times in the development
of a great performer.

We usually cannot conceive a way to become like federer. They are from
another planet.

But, 
>There is in fact a path leading from the state of our own abilities to
that of the greats. The path is extremely long and demanding, and only
a few will follow it all the way to its end.

Only few will do it and you got to be that guy.


### Chao7: DP for an induvidual

I am not sure this chapter was giving useful info on how to DP in real
time.

I should read it again. For the main part it kept showing how experts
look at situations compared to beginners.

But it started with Benji Frank, and how he used to DP. It is hard, it
is more but, it is about focussing on what we want and what we need to
improve.

Knowing what you want
Practising directly
	- using chess model, sports model to evaluate what you need to do.
	- some examples for writing.
Practising in the work
Deepening the knowledge


The importance of feedback and immediate feedback, and belief that it
is going to pay off keep us motivated.

### Chap8: something about the organization

Skimmed through in 4 mins. Not for me, not now it appears. IT was like
reading the last part of chap 7 where there was all blab! framework I
think.


### Chap 9: DP for innovation

Creativity like everything seems like it can be learned. Archimedes
didn't get an aha moment without all the deep years and knowledge he
has spent. And the author attempts to debunk the idea that "too much
knowledge inhibits your thinking.

Author points to several studies of different top level performers and
summarizes that none of them contributed in less than 6 years! Almost
none irrespective of the field of creativity required.


>There is in fact a path leading from the state of our own abilities
to that of the greats. The path is extremely long and demanding, and
only a few will follow it all the way to its 

Nothing happened in an instant. It happened with knowledge that was
built on and at all times by someone who developed domain knowledge
like crazy. with enough DP years.

>From the telegraph to the airplane to the Internet, they're all
adaptations and extensions of what existed, made possible by great
insights but entirely impossible without a deep knowledge of, and
reliance on, past achievements.

It is clear that the 2 myths that the author starts with are clearly
debunked by the end.

And some stuff about organizations!


### Chapter 10 : Great performance in Youth and Age

One of the most amazing chapters that fill me with hope and excitement
about old age. 

Yes we need to start early for most things. But things like business
starting early is not really common.

Due to heavy competition and the shear amount of knowledge needed it
appears there is the Noble price effect.

The support environment, time adn resources where we are from is quite
important! body stops to make those body changes required for some
sports music etc...


But the most important part was about how we are going to loose
functionality of everything that we just don't deep practice. Even at
crazy old ages we can have our skills just like the many people who
do. 

>Why does a chess player study four or five hours a day when becoming
even one of the world's top- ranked grand masters does not necessarily
bring wealth? Why do some young businesspeople push themselves beyond
their jobs' considerable daily demands to acquire more knowledge and
skills when the payoff is uncertain and may be years away?


### Final chapter: Where does the passion come from?

Perhaps the most important chapters and book in my life!  Got caught
in some drama.! for quite a bit! need to bounce of of it! Forgive and
move on! no revenge boye! its over! Pandian out!


One of the most crucial chapters. Mostly falls under what I haev heard
from an STM and all those ted talks..

The contradiction between the TED and that hard work is hard is dealt
with here. to be in a range where your skill just meets the results!

We basically want intrinsic instead of extrinsic motivation!

There are tons of examples of people who are completely devoted to
their life.

Initial years of the young kids might be hard, also for me, but with
time the intrinsic motivation is expected to grow with your creativity
and your DP hours clocked!

There is the multiplier effect. 

In the end the author says something on the lines of how an STM exists
how the whiplash genius exists. 

Pandian out
