---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "MBA"
date:    14-03-2018 21:00
categories: The Beginning
permalink: /:title.html
published: True
---
## Why MBA?

MBA is a study that can act as a fresh start, nice platform to do multiple things
such as:

1) provide gateway into the US (actually any masters will)

2) a reasonable gateway to Management consulting, 

3) a career in finance such as investment banking 

Sundar Pichai, Tim cook, Satya Nadella all have MBA. Although, [Rob
Mather](https://www.againstmalaria.com/people.aspx) the founder of AMF has an MBA, who does amazing things doesn't

> to get to senior positions within companies you don't really need an
> MBA - 80k hours

[David goldberg](https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidjonathangoldberg/), the CEO of founders pledge has an MPhil in
philosophy. His career is really interesting as he done quite some
founding, being in top positions (General manager, Co-founder), and
all this without an MBA.

[Benjamin Todd](https://www.linkedin.com/in/benjamin-todd-b5866b63/?lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_flagship3_profile_view_base%3BlZKEsHJwQySB2gILLml8NQ%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_flagship3_profile_view_base-browsemap_profile) CEO and co-founder of 80k hours, has had amazing
accomplishments, all with a masters degree in philosophy and without
an MBA. 

>I manage the team, and have especially focused on product design,
>strategy, fund-raising, writing our content and hiring. - Benjamin
>Todd


## Not sure?

A management degree allows me to earn for a few years, while gaining
some problem solving experience and then hop into the real roles as
required for the world.

At this point it appears as if I need an MBA to get into management
consulting or investment banking.

How can I check this?

  * [ ] I can check this with someone I can know in the business, or I can try
through LinkedIn or try reaching out to a friend.


## Where can I do an MBA?

0) Internship

I suppose I can try applying for an internship for 2 months, because
that is all the free time I would have. But I would still need to prep
for it for a few months. Not sure what to prep on and how to go about
it.

  * [ ] Not sure of the growth that I could get after. I suspect a degree is
valued more?

1) china

Apparently there is university which gives you money for stay and
education. My friend from chennai, was able to get it before starting
his masters in TU Delft. Hence, I suspect I should be able to get it as well

2) US in a mediocre university (rank 25-ish)

My friend from Chennai with a 740 in GMAT did his education with an
80% scholarship in the US. The next year apparently all the students
were given a full scholarship. He earns only 70k now (100k california
salary), which probably reflects on his skills as well as the
university level. But it is possible scholarship, but is there any use?

Another friend who got into Cornell (180k tuition fees), after working
in Deloitte for a few years, and a 710 in GMAT, seems to be very
confident of getting a job after finishing his studies. Anyways he
suggests to stay within top 20. 

  * [ ] The possibility of a scholarship is unclear
  * [ ] The possibility of a job is unclear
  
3a) Do an MBA in Netherlands (12 months)

The Rotterdam school seems to be one of the good schools in NL. The
cost of such an education is about 50k $. I should have learnt dutch
before I finish my MBA. I am not really worried or thinking twice
about a job. I suspect it should be rather easy. Worst case I have the
scope to join back into the precision industry I am attempting to get
out of. 

Highly advisable to apply for scholarship. I don't have that kind of
money, plus I will have to 

  * [ ] Apply for 2019/2020 with a good GMAT score to get into RSM
        only with scholorship
		
  * [ ] Learn the credentials of people who do earn scholarships
  
  * [ ] There are CV assessments available on the website of RSM,
        probably to get a feel of your level
  
Loans are available at nice interest rates, but the time of paying
back will probably hold you back.

3b) Do an MBA in INSEAD in UK

This seems to be a god-level program with ranking of 2 in 2018. It is a one
year program, and I guess the top of the top would come here. [It says
here in their website ](https://www.insead.edu/master-programmes/mba) as to what is the avg GMAT score (710),
number of years of experience (6) etc... An average salary of $177k is
expected after 3 years of graduation according to
[rankings.ft.com](http://rankings.ft.com/businessschoolrankings/insead).

Not sure how doable it is. Anyways there is time.


4) Part time options (22 months)

RSM offers some part-time MBA as well.

5) Taking up a management traineeship job for 2 years?


  * [ ] Ask Koushik what are the possibilities and exit routes for
        Shell management trainees
		
  * [ ] Also look for the same in Linkedin
  
6) An MBA in India is also an option
  
## In any case

If I have decided to do an MBA and attempt to get in top courses, I
should give my life and leave this company and go to somewhere else
where I can get credentials.

<!--

## Can I afford an MBA

I should have at the end of this year about 12k euros in hand (runway)

It would be ideal to do a masters in the US. 


## Can I get a scholarship? 

My friend with a 740 got a scholarship with 

-->

P.S

Major procrastination after one hour. Not able to control. Then huge
resistance to write well, amidst doing research. I want to sleep by 11
and wake up early, seems to never be possible.
