---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "DP focussing on examples and immediate feedback"
date:    09-02-2019 
categories: posts
tags: DP, feedback, examples
permalink: /:title.html
published: true
---

## Mission #5 by an STM


> In other cases though, say (when you are organizing information and
> providing solutions) [1] - based on that - to your boss, you might
> want to (be like Tiger Woods, conscious, controlled and not
> automatic)[2]"

You've described [2] using a lovely concrete example in the [last
post](/DP-CT-examples.html). However, [1] is sorely lacking in examples. What is this
"organizing information"? Or "providing solutions"? That could be
anything from "it's hot today" all the way up to "e = mc^2". Contrast
that to PG's [business plan](http://www.paulgraham.com/vwplan.html) for his startup in 1995:

> OVERVIEW Webgen allows clients to generate web catalogs remotely.
>
> There are several other companies that can generate and serve web
> catalogs. The best known site of this type is Marketplace MCI
> (www.internetmci.com). But while these other sites use their
> generators in-house to build catalogs from materials provided by
> clients, Webgen's generator can be used interactively by anyone with
> a modem and a copy of Netscape. ...

You might want to describe what you're doing in such terms, like
"*generate web catalogs remotely*" or "*used interactively*", so that
it is clear even to an outsider what you're doing.
	
---

**Mission #5:** Time to chunk it up. Right now, you are working on
sentences and paragraphs at a time. That is, you get feedback about
your output dimensions after writing the entire paragraph (or God
forbid, the entire essay). The feedback isn't immediate enough
(principle #3 from TiO). In contrast, look at how I narrowed down the
specific phrases [1] and [2] where you gave examples or not.

You need to take passages you feel you don't understand clearly
(perhaps some things you've written yourself about important yet
unclear issues in "rationality" and some outside material about tough
technical problems), mark within parentheses each important phrase
like I did with [1] and [2], check if you've given an example for it,
and if not, rewrite it with a concrete example. If you're not sure if
a phrase is important or not, err in favour of an example. 200
repetitions should be a good start. Soon, you will come to notice
immediately if you are throwing out words without any concrete
example, the way a misspelled word in an editor shows up with red
underlines.

Does it mean that PG and EY will give examples after every phrase? Not
necessarily. But they will have an example in mind as they write. I
suspect that when we say "people don't think clearly", we mean that
their words don't correspond to any concrete example (see: "critical
thinking"). And when your words don't correspond to anything concrete,
you can make them say anything. For a striking example, check out this
philosophical passage that EY tore to pieces:
https://youtu.be/D6peN9LiTWA?t=1067

What was the problem there? The words didn't correspond to any known
piece of reality. They were figments of the poet's imagination, and
yet he thought they described something real. It sounded convincing
even to me. I was like, yeah, maybe we really are fallen people
compared to those wise, brotherly ancients.

How would you and I tackle that? We would stop at the first phrase in
the first sentence: "In the age when life on Earth was full". Ok. Give
me a historical example or empirical evidence for what you mean by
"life on Earth was full". People had ACs? Cars? Long lives? Lots of
sex? (Could be true. Could also be not true. Need empirical
evidence. And if you say you can't get that evidence from millenia
ago... well, that's the whole point! Why are you using as an example
something that you have no real evidence about? End of story then and
there.)

Let's take another example closer to home. "I need to practice
critical thinking and become a master." - Anonymous, 1785 AD. Well,
Mr. Anonymous, what is this "critical thinking" you speak of? Let's
see at least one example (after you've practiced on a bunch of other
sentences).

---

## Goal and how to do it.

> **Mission**: You need to take passages you feel you don't understand
> clearly (perhaps some things you've written yourself about important
> yet unclear issues in "rationality" and some outside material about
> tough technical problems), mark within parentheses each important
> phrase like I did with [1] and [2], check if you've given an example
> for it, and if not, rewrite it with a concrete example. If you're not
> sure if a phrase is important or not, err in favour of an example. 200
> repetitions should be a good start. - an STM via e-mail

**Goal**: All fluff words (like problem solving, critical thinking)
have to be associated with examples. And we need to do this on 200
phrases.

The first example is given below...

> "(I want to get better at *critical thinking)*"[1]- Anonymous 1795 AD

P: I want to get better at "critical thinking". 

E: In the article on [scope insensitivity](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/2ftJ38y9SRBCBsCzy/scope-insensitivity) there is a
lot of discussion about how to design experiments that distinguish the
"prototype-dominated" affect and the warm glow of moral
satisfaction. I don't understand this. There is a whole discussion and
I am finding it hard to wrap my head around it. I'd like to get better
here.

At work, I am having to do quite some "problem solving". By that I
mean I am given a couple of observations (about leak in the Vacuum
Chamber). I need to isolate what is the problem is (is it leaking from
outside? or are these virtual leaks? etc...), I need to design
experiments (pump down the chamber and measure leak) and I need to
convey the results (make a presentation and explain how my diagnosis
is right). This is hard for me, I want to become better here, i.e., I
often find myself banging my head to make sense of what is happening
and presenting it. :)

<!-- **Goal 2:** Not feel bored -->

<!-- Last essay I wrote out loud that there were parts that were boring, -->
<!-- and an STM feels that maybe this was due to the lack of immediate -->
<!-- feedback. We need to get immediate feedback, like am I at a good pace -->
<!-- with this mission? Am I able to find fluff phrases that lack examples? -->
<!-- Am I able to give examples for the fluff phrases? Then and there. -->

<!-- As opposed to the last time, where we looked at the main idea over a -->
<!-- few sentences -->

<!-- But an STM seems to think it was the lack of immediate feedback -->
<!-- as mentions -->



### What is and isn't DP (38 done)

From [my summary on TIO about 'What is and isn't DP'](/DP-CT-examples.html):

> Sometimes I go to basketball practice and try a few shots from one
> spot. Then I try (some drills in ball handling)[3] to (improve play
> during the game)[2]. I try (multiple variations)[3] 2-3 times each
> and get bored and then play some one-on-ones with someone and feel
> happy that I have clocked 2 more hours of practice (that hopefully
> gets me to amazing levels someday)[4]; you know, ‘Practice makes
> perfect’ and the like. The author hosts a similar example from his
> life when he went golfing and (“practiced” with golf balls)[5]. He
> says with conviction that (this will do jack shit to your
> performance)[6].

P: improve play during the game

E: So every Sunday I play basketball with my friends. Mostly I suck
and people make fun of it, especially when you make air balls or miss
a silly ass layup when you are so close to the basket. Whilst this is
me, my friends, almost all of them, have very good shooting percentage
and good range from where they can shoot. *I would like to be atleast
as good as them.*

P: some drills in ball handling; multiple variations

E: I start with shooting from different places randomly (roughly 20
shots), and then try 5 spin moves, and then move on to left handed
layups

P: Hopefully gets me to amazing levels

E: amazing levels like that of my peers (in a year or two)

P: "practiced" with golf balls

E: The author hit a few balls and picked one of 1000 reasons why he
didn't hit the ball "right", then believed he was practicing for
it. He then got distracted to another reason he didn't hit the ball
"right". In the end he hit about a few hundred balls and felt happy
that he was getting better.

P: this will do jack shit to your performance

E: You will NEVER be better than your peers.

---

> The idea of deliberate practice (DP) is quite different from the
> above form of practice. Jerry Rice according to the author is a near
> perfect example of someone who did massive amounts of DP and in the
> end became a legend.
>
> Deliberate practice is characterized by several elements, each worth
> examining. It is activity (designed specifically to improve
> performance)[1], often with a teacher’s help; (it can be repeated a
> lot)[2]; (feedback on results is continuously available)[3]; (it’s
> highly demanding mentally)[4], (whether the activity is purely
> intellectual, such as chess or business-related activities)[5], or
> (heavily physical, such as sports;)[6] and (it isn’t much fun)[7].

P: designed specifically to improve performance

E: You want to be a better basket ball player. How do you do that? You
first need to identify spaces where you suck, example, shooting, lay
ups, spin moves, passing, court vision, team playing etc... Lets for
now say we want to improve shooting, we need to design an activity
that will specifically improve that. We saw earlier how I had designed
an activity to improve shooting. I shot from random places, and did
less than 20 shots and moved on to something else. That is surely
designed by me but not to improve performance. Instead I should shoot
100 shots from similar spots. Or practice until I get the ball in a
100 times. There is a huge body of knowledge about the mechanics, the
form and the way to do the practice, which is available to us to
improve our skills.

P: it can be repeated a lot

E: The pathetic practice I had designed earlier seriously missed out
on this. I shot 20 times from different places. Instead I should have shot
20-100 times from the same place over and over again.

P: feedback on results is continuously available

E: When I am practicing shooting, I look at the parameter of shooting
percentage and log it every week as I practice. So I know if I am
getting better or if I still suck, so I can take some additional steps
to keep improving. In addition I train with a friend who gives me
critical feedback, laughs at me when I suck. Furthermore, on game
nights you see if practice is helping you or not.

P: it's highly demanding mentally

E: It is quite a mental load to practice. You are physically tired and
you still need to keep grinding. Yesterday I was practicing this spin
move and wanted to do it 20 times. By the 10th time, I felt like I
wanted to stop, but I needed to keep grinding. So I had to push myself
to do more.

E2: I was practicing some shooting and I was sucking so hard, but I
still needed to keep grinding over all the negativity. I have put in
so much hard work over the last many weeks and the extent to which I
sucked was incredible, but I still need to grind. I was tired, my arms
couldn't do it and I forced myself to do those 100 shots from close to
the 3-point-line anyways. 

P: activity is purely intellectual

E: "such as chess or business-related activities"

P: activity is heavily physical

E: "Sports"

P: It isn't much fun

E: Shizuka Arakawa, gold medal in figure skating, had fallen on ice
with her derriere atleast 20000 times. It did get her the gold medal
after years and years of practice though.

---

> **It’s designed specifically to improve performance.**

> During DP, one must identify certain (sharply defined elements that
> need improvement)[2] and (work on them intently)[3]. These practices
> should be designed in such a way that (they stretch your current
> abilities)[4]. The great performers, (see a couple of issues and
> isolate each one of them)[5] and (work on them)[6] until they have
> (seen sufficient improvement before moving on to the next
> aspect)[7].

P: sharply defined elements that need improvement

E: shooting 3 pointers, or delivering spin moves,

P: work on them intently

E: [Kobe Bryant the legend](https://uproxx.com/dimemag/kobe-bryant-story-jay-williams-playoff-workout/2/) who quits practicing only [after he
makes 400 shots](https://www.businessinsider.nl/kobe-bryant-insane-work-ethic-2013-8/?international=true&r=US) (around 3 hrs of only shooting). Legend! 

E2: Jerry Rice working out all day during the off season to improve
his explosiveness and precision in running patterns

P: they stretch your current abilities [4]

E: Jerry Rice's off-season workout was known for being extremely
strenuous and he was the only one who could perform it. 

P: see a couple of issues and isolate each one of them

E: Benjamin Franklin understood from his father that his work
stinks. His father pointed out a few of his flaws. One of the issues
was that he had poor vocabulary, so he designed his practice just for
that. Another practice for organization of the prose etc...

E2: 

> Not being the fastest receiver in the league turned out not to
> matter. He (Jerry Rice) became famous for the precision of his
> patterns. His weight training gave him tremendous strength. His
> trail running gave him control so he could change directions
> suddenly without signaling his move. - TIO chapter 4

P: work on them

E: BF found the best work, made notes on it, a few days later he would
make his own version and compare it to original. 

P: seen sufficient improvement before moving on to the next aspect [7]

E: In basketball, currently I would be happy if I reached 60%
shooting percentage every week in practice before adding other aspects
to my practice, such as shooting when there is a defender
etc... 

E2: You master the scales while learning piano before moving on to
things like trill, jumping octaves.

P: the author suggests to atleast give it (getting feedback from the
teacher) another thought

E: Ben Franklin's teacher was the writings of Spectator, some work
that is clearly of a higher class than what he was capable of doing.

E2: All sportsmen have coaches

P: While learning it is good to be in the zone where we are just beyond our
comfort zone; which makes us stretch our abilities; it is quite
motivating instead of being a daunting task to approach...

E: I can easily bike with an average-heart-rate (AHR) of 161bpm over
20 mins. If I stick to that every day there will be no improvement. I
need to push myself to a much higher AHR. 175 bpm is too hard, so much
so that the I am crying every minute and it becomes so repulsive to
pick up such a task later. On the other hand 165bpm is just outside my
comfort zone and is challenging enough. If I really wanted to train to
be the best of the best of the best, I should be going for 175bpm, but
it drastically tones down the motivation and it becomes such a
daunting task especially after surviving a grueling weight training
workout.

---

> It can be repeated a lot
>
> In golf the ball rarely gets buried into the sand. Such shots are
> quite rare. But when they happen you cannot expect to perform well
> as you have rarely performed that shot. Top performers repeat a
> lot. (Isolation of the specific space where you need to improve is
> key)[1], (followed by a lot of repetitions)[2].
>
> Ted Williams, baseball’s greatest hitter, would practice hitting
> until his hands bled. Pete Maravich, whose college basketball
> records still stand after more than thirty years, would go to the
> gym when it opened in the morning and shoot baskets until it closed
> at night.
>

P: Isolation of the specific space where you need to improve is key

E: One of the important aspects of "critical thinking" is to see all
words as clear cut examples and not as vague sentences. Identifying
where examples are needed and providing them is the skill

P: followed by a lot of repetition

E: identifying where examples are needed and providing them for ~200
phrases, like I am doing now.

 <!-- 25 phrases done up until now. -->

---

> Feedback
>
> Following all this, one can work on his technique but it is very
> important (to see progress and get feedback)[1]. Otherwise one will
> (stop getting any better and stop caring about the end
> goal)[2]. (Feedback is extremely crucial to feel
> motivated)[3]. (Sometimes results might need interpretation)[4],
> (trusting your own judgment might not really be the best way to go
> about it)[5]. Is the blog post clear to a new reader? Will people
> get the main idea? Is it organized well? Paul Graham for example,
> appears to take this very seriously. Before he publishes a post, he
> runs atleast a few loops of getting feedback from his friends
> followed by correction before publishing it.


P: to see progress and get feedback

E: If you are able to lift more weight the next time you go to the gym
you see progress, the feedback is that you are getting better.

P: You will stop getting any better and stop caring about the end

E: If you don't get better at the gym, then you start to question what
you are doing here, if this is really for you etc... Will you ever be
able to lift 100kg? I had such a slump a few weeks back and I am
trying to do things that will get me over that slump, like eating
properly and training harder.

P: Feedback is extremely crucial to feel motivated

E: I mainly care about the Basketball I play on Sunday. Based on how I
suck and where all I suck I feel the motivation to come back every
Saturday and grind. This week I sucked so hard I want to up my
practice like that of the [Kobe Bryant the legend](https://uproxx.com/dimemag/kobe-bryant-story-jay-williams-playoff-workout/2/).

There was a time when for three weeks straight I didn't really get to
play the Sunday games, I am sure I contemplated not going to train on
Saturdays during those weeks. I was like, "I mean whats the point of
going and grinding". But I didn't have problems going to practice
this Saturday, nor with last Saturday. :)

P: Sometimes results might need interpretation

E: Its easy to fool yourself that you played "well" today. If you
scored the last basket, you usually feel good. For a better
understanding of how well you actually performed, you need to look at
some sort of statistics like how many points you scored per game or
what was your field goal percentage or even compliments from your
peers ( #gaining-peoples-respect!)

P: trusting your own judgment might not really be the best way to go
about it

E: "Is the blog post clear to a new reader? Will people get the main
idea? Is it organized well? Paul Graham for example, appears to take
this very seriously. Before he publishes a post, he runs atleast a few
iterations of getting feedback from his friends followed by correction
before publishing it." #PG


<!-- 30. -->


---

> It is painful
>
> I can imagine working on things like (improving writing)[1]. I know
> (I suck,  I have read my essays)[2]. (First I would need to identify
> good sentences and maybe try to emulate them in other works
> consciously)[3]. This could be qualified as DP. But the shear
> (repulsion to that activity is huge)[4], and pushing through all of it
> for maybe atleast 10k sentences, makes it painful I think. The
> violinists from the Ericsson experiment stated practice as the least
> fun activity in their daily life.

P: improving writing

E: Looking at better-text in comparison to your work and trying to
imitate it; using the [Benjamin Franklin method](http://pradeep90.github.io/ben-franklin-practice.html).

P: I suck at writing

E: I make lot of grammatical errors and missing words, e.g., [my post on the
"purpose of life"](/Answers-finale.html).

P: First I would need to identify good sentences and maybe try to
emulate them in other works consciously.

E: Benjamin Franklin identified the Spectator as superior work and
used it to improve his writing.

P: repulsion to that activity is huge

E: Today as I am making this exercise, it is hard. Generating examples
of all kinds, knowing that I might not really make the goal of 200,
and pushing myself to still make it, is all the strain mentally, and I
want to let go of it.

--- 

> Everyone would achieve greatness if it were easy and fun. But
> everyone doesn’t and it is not easy and fun. Your willingness to do
> (it will distinguish you all the more(from the rest))[4]. Think about
> Jerry Rice again!

P: it will distinguish you all the more from the rest

E: Aamir Khan for a movie makes a [ridiculous transformation in short
time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1aVw1gZ9Ncg). It was not easy or fun for him as you can see from the
video. He is constantly made to push beyond what he is capable of. He
struggles with doing it everyday, but pushes himself anyway. His
willingness, the mental struggle he had to go through to do what he
did distinguishes him all the more from the rest; just like Jerry
Rice. How many Jerry Rice's and Aamir Khan's do we know of?

> These tasks (whether physical or not)[1], seem to drain out much of
> our mental energy)[2] as they are all about (improving an
> unsatisfactory performance and trying your hardest to improve
> these)[3]. It is estimated that 4-5 hours of DP per day seems to be
> the upper limit, (across disciplines)[4], with sessions frequently
> lasting no more than 90 minutes. The study of violinists (TIO chap
> 4) for example shows that the kids that do DP slept more not only
> during the night but also during the afternoons.

P: whether physical or not

E: Bodybuilding or playing the piano or [improving writing](http://pradeep90.github.io/)

P: drain out our mental energy

E: While writing my [first DP post](/Deliberate-Practice-case-study.html) I say this:

> Well, I remember the day when I started writing it all out. After
> around 2 hrs I just couldn’t. I tapped out!

P: Improving an unsatisfactory performance and trying your hardest to
improve these

E: Jerry Rice's grueling conditioning workouts

> Not being the fastest receiver in the league turned out not to
> matter. He became famous for the precision of his patterns. His weight
> training gave him tremendous strength. His trail running gave him
> control so he could change directions suddenly without signaling his
> move. The uphill wind sprints game him explosive acceleration

P: across disciplines

E: be it body building or be it learning to write or play the piano

<!-- 38 done until now... -->


### becoming a critic of your thinking (5 done)

> There is (nothing more practical than sound thinking)[1]. No matter
> what your circumstance or goals, no matter where you are, or what
> problems you face, you are (better off if your thinking is
> skilled)[2]. As a manager, leader, employee, citizen, lover, friend,
> parent — in every realm and situation of your life — (good thinking
> pays off)[3]. (Poor thinking)[4] in turn, (inevitably causes
> problems, wastes time and energy, engenders frustration and
> pain)[5].

There is way too much vagueness in this paragraph and the coming
paragraphs. Oh my! especially for a website titled "critical thinking".

P: Nothing more practical than sound thinking

E: If engaging in drama consumes your mind, and does not allow you to
focus on things, you should stay away from drama, even if it means
apologizing to a superior when it not your fault; as your priority is
to squash the beef and move on with other important things.

P: better off if your thinking is skilled; good thinking pays off

E: Skilled thinking can come up with "right answers" for questions
like, "should we marry?", or "Should we freeze ourselves"

P: Poor thinking

E: I was moving from one house to another, and in an attempt to save
400 euros I brought self some major stress over the entire month. I
didn't know how to equate money to time, I still struggle with the
idea.

I sometimes end up wasting hours and hours, just so I can save a few
10's of euros. I was buying a phone recently and spent the entire day
trading off different phones, when I could be doing a week of courses
from my Data Science course, and keep moving ahead. A phone is
250€. In the worst case if I bought a bad phone I could return it or
buy a new one in a year. I was trying to make the best decision and
guess what, the phone still sucks, its not good enough. Now I want to
return this phone and buy another one which is even more
pricy. #GreatThinkingNot. Lack of ability to realize what is important
and how to trade off money is one example of my poor thinking. Some of
the realization is in hindsight, but I am about to do it again :(

P: inevitably causes problems, wastes time and energy, engenders
frustration and pain

E: Once I was expected to inform if the Vacuum chamber was able to go
to low pressures. I did some experiments and saw that the in some
cases it went to the expected low pressures and in other cases the
leak was too high. I was expected to present this, along with why I
think it was happening, how to verify my claim and also propose
solutions for the reducing the leak. So I looked at the observations
and failed to tell a convincing story (logical) about why we were
observing certain phenomenon. I felt quite confused while making the
presentation even, and naturally it showed in the review.

> Critical thinking is the disciplined art of ensuring that you use
> the best thinking you are capable of in any set of
> circumstances. The general goal of thinking is to “figure out the
> lay of the land” in any situation we are in. We all have multiple
> choices to make. We need the best information to make the best
> choices.


I think I will be dead before I finish this. I stop here. This is too
hard or impossible. So many words meaning the same freaking thing.

### Technical writing (8+12+10=30)

Dynamics paper wrote

> Abstract—This paper presents a new paradigm for design of
> (mechanical components that are subjected to dynamic loading in
> their regular operation)[2]. Traditionally, such design tasks are
> handled by (artificially raising the level of the static load)[3] by
> introducing a factor of safety, which is meant to compensate for the
> (unknown variations of the actual loads)[4]. This method works
> nicely when the (dynamic component of the total loads are low)[5],
> but (not necessarily otherwise)[6]. The connecting rod of an IC
> engine is such a component, as it suffers large inertial load when
> the engine runs at high speeds. To design such components, an
> iterative strategy is presented, which relies (upon a kinetostatic
> model)[7] to assess the dynamic loads, and (incorporates the effects
> of the mass distribution of the resulting designed component on the
> inertial loads themselves)[8]. An application of this design
> technique on a reported scenario leads to (significant
> variations)[9] in the dimensions, mass of the designed components,
> as well as the loads experienced by them.

P: mechanical components that are subjected to dynamic loading in
their regular operation

E: typically parts moving at very high speeds such as parts of the IC
engine (connecting rod, piston), or Gas Turbine components (turbine).

P: artificially raising the level of the static load ; unknown
variations of the actual loads

E: For instance, lifts and buildings are designed typically with a
factor of safety of 100 over the expected static load of the people
and furniture, accounting for unknown dynamic loads due to earthquakes
or winds etc...

P: dynamic component of the total loads are low

E: they are low when for instance people jump on a table, or say a
table fan rotating at very low speed. A factor of safety or 2-3 can
easily handle this.

P: not necessarily otherwise

E: The connecting rod of an IC engine is such a component where the
factor-of-safety (FOS) sign will not work due the link between inertia and
mass. If you have more FOS, you will have more mass leading to
larger inertial loads than what you wanted to compensate for in the
first place.

P: upon a kinetostatic model

E: Where in the angular velocity of the crank in an IC engine is constant

P: incorporates the effects of the mass distribution of the resulting
 designed component on the inertial loads themselves

E: effects of mass distribution is taken into account by splitting the
connecting rod into 2 point masses and a varying I section. This mass
distribution has a different effect on the inertial loads as opposed
to the traditions 2 point masses alone.

P: significant variations

E: the mass reducing by 30%, the loads reducing by 50%

<!-- 9 phrases -->

---

> The process of design of mechanical component usually starts with
> (the identification of the loads on the component)[1], and (their
> variations, if any, in the stipulated operating scenarios)[2]. In
> (many cases, it is not possible to model the loads very
> accurately)[3], (more so when they vary with time)[4]. In such
> situations, it is customary to come up with a design based in
> (available knowledge of load)[5], compensating for the undetermined
> variations by introducing a “factor of safety”, which essentially
> simulates a higher level of static load. This method, though used
> fairly commonly, (is not guaranteed to produce the best results)[6],
> particularly when the (dynamic loads are comparable/greater than the
> static loads on a component)[7]. In such cases, (over-compensation
> of the loads)[8] lead to heavier designs, which in turn result in
> greater inertial loads for the same operational speeds. An
> alternative design methodology could be to employ a (detailed
> analysis of the mass distribution, strength and loading of
> components)[9]. However, because of the (coupled nature of
> these)[10], it is a challenging task in terms of both modeling and
> as well as computational burden. Nevertheless, some components, such
> as the connecting rod of an IC engine in an automotive,..



P: the identification of the loads on the component; their variations,
if any, in the stipulated operating scenarios

E: For an IC engine, we look at the torque the engine has to generate
and the forces at the joints (varying with time) of the piston, crank
and connecting rod.

P: In many cases, it is not possible to model the loads very
accurately

E: With the IC engine, there are 3 main parts, resulting in roughly 10
forces. Solving for these forces is quite hard and computationally
intensive when we have the second order inertia terms. We settle for
lesser accuracy and simplify the model.

P: modeling the loads accurately when they vary with time

E: If the loads vary with time you have to make atleast another 360 to 720
calculations for the case of the IC engine

P: it is customary to come up with a design based on the available
knowledge of load

E: So we set the inertial terms to 0 and this makes computation faster
and straight-forward to get closed form solutions and design the parts.

P: This method (fos method) is not guaranteed to produce the best results

E: If you apply this to an IC engine, the parts are expected to break.

P: dynamic loads are comparable/greater than the static loads on a
component

E: Dynamic loads are greater than static loads in Gas Turbines and IC
engines rotating at greater than 4000 rpm

P: over-compensation of the loads

E: to account for unknown variations, we take the static loads on a
table, say due to a man sitting on the table, and then assume the max
load is going to be 3 times the static load and design the table for that.

P: detailed analysis of the mass distribution, strength and loading of
components

E: for example using Finite Element Methods

P: coupled nature of these

E: if you increase mass of the part the inertia increases, if the
inertia increases loads increase, if the loads increase the dimensions
increase/change, which have an effect on the mass


---

> Usually, in the analysis of a connecting rod, its mass is
> substituted for by an (equivalent system of concentrated
> masses)[1]. One thirds and two thirds of the mass are lumped at the
> piston and the crank end of the connecting rod, respectively. Based
> on the forces calculated, engine parts are designed for maximum
> piston load or inertial load. This approach does not capture the
> (true variation of the dynamic forces on the connecting rod, and
> their effect on the piston pin)[2]. Another lumping model is
> presented, where in the (connecting rod is divided into three
> parts)[3]: two concentrated end-masses, and distributed central
> part. The central part remains a rod with linearly varying I-section
> along its longitudinal axis. The ends are modeled by a point of mass
> each at their barycenter, such that the resultant moment of inertia
> is equivalent to the original.


P: equivalent system of concentrated masses

E: for example the connecting rod is simplified as follows: "One
thirds and two thirds of the mass are lumped at the piston and the
crank end of the connecting rod, respectively."

P: true variation of the dynamic forces on the connecting rod, and
their effect on the piston pin

E: Another lumping model needs to be used where the connecting rod is
divided into three parts

P: connecting rod is divided into three parts

E: "two concentrated end-masses, and distributed central part. The
central part remains rod with linearly varying I-section along its
longitudinal axis"

> Sometimes, (a dynamic loading case is decomposed into a series of
> static loading cases)[1] referred to as screen shots. This allows
> for accounting for dynamic loads by (solving a simple static case
> repeatedly)[2] and is called quasi-dynamic. Though this is adequate
> for most cases, it becomes computationally expensive when (huge
> computer models)[3] (Finite Element) are used.  


P: a dynamic loading case is decomposed into a series of static
loading cases

E: The crank in an IC engine rotates 360 degrees. So for every degree
you can compute the forces as though the system was static

P: solving a simple static case repeatedly

E: Solving the same equations for every degree of rotation of the crank.

P: huge computer models

E: "Models using Finite Element Methods": for the IC engine simulation
it could take upto 1 hr on a 8gb ram system per simulation.

---

> This paper proposes a new design paradigm that incorporates the
> (effects of dynamic loading on a mechanical component)[1]. The loads
> on the component are computed using a (kinetostatic analysis
> model)[2], which is (simple and analytical in nature)[3], and
> (significantly more accurate)[4] than the static model at the same
> time. Using the example of the connecting rod of an IC engine, it
> has been shown that there is a significant change in resulting
> design when the proposed methodology is applied to an (existing
> design scenario reported in literature)[5]. It is expected to
> produce more realistic results as the (analysis and design modules
> in each iteration, are refined further)[6].

P: effects of dynamic loading on a mechanical component

E: such as the loads experienced by parts of an IC engine.

P: kinetostatic analysis model

E: crank is assumed to have a constant speed.

P: simple and analytical in nature

E: We don't need to solve differential equations but solve simple
simultaneous equations

P: significantly more accurate

E: for example, the static load calculation does not capture the
cyclic loading and overestimates the forces

P: existing design scenario reported in literature

E: This is nothing but the formulas to be used to dimension the
piston, connecting rod and crank, based on loads

P: it is expected to produce more realistic results as the analysis
and design modules in each iteration, are refined further

E: For instance, if the mass distribution of the parts resulting in
better estimates of the inertial load improve, then we should have
more realistic results.

### Article by Paul graham on writing (16)

> I think it's far more important to (write well)[1] than most people
> realize. Writing doesn't just (communicate ideas)[2]; it (generates
> them)[3]. If you're (bad at writing)[4] and don't like to do it,
> you'll miss out on most of the ideas writing would have generated.
>

P: write well; generates ideas

E: writing that generates ideas, clarifies thought implies that you
are writing well. For example, I was writing an article on my career
choices and found that it didn't make much of a difference to me to
save 600 lives as opposed to 500 lives. I was looking at them like
€. It was during this writing that discovered for myself about how
wrong I was.

I was constantly worrying myself about how I cound't save 10k lives and I
was treating the difference between 500 and 600 lives as meh! It was
with this article, when I was writing it, that I understood why a 100
lives is nothing short of incredible

P: communicate ideas

E: PG writes blogs after blogs to share his ideas with people, ideas
on how to write, how a business plan should look, etc...


P: bad at writing

E: writing that does not communicate ideas or generate them would be
considered bad writing. If you look at [this article](/Answers-finale.html) on the
purpose of life you will get an idea of what I am talking about. I
wrote it a while back based on the discussion I had with an STM, but
boy, I had to turn my head away while I was looking at it
recently. It's all over the place, needs some major re-writing.

> As for how to write well, here's the short version: Write a bad
> version 1 as fast as you can; rewrite it over and over; cut out
> everything unnecessary; write in a conversational tone; develop a
> nose for bad writing, so you can see and fix it in yours; imitate
> writers you like; if you can't get started, tell someone what you
> plan to write about, then write down what you said; expect 80% of
> the ideas in an essay to happen after you start writing it, and 50%
> of those you start with to be wrong; be confident enough to cut;
> have friends you trust read your stuff and tell you which bits are
> confusing or drag; don't (always) make detailed outlines; mull ideas
> over for a few days before writing; carry a small notebook or scrap
> paper with you; start writing when you think of the first sentence;
> if a deadline forces you to start before that, just say the most
> important sentence first; write about stuff you like; don't try to
> sound impressive; don't hesitate to change the topic on the fly; use
> footnotes to contain digressions; use anaphora to knit sentences
> together; read your essays out loud to see (a) where you stumble
> over awkward phrases and (b) which bits are boring (the paragraphs
> you dread reading); try to tell the reader something new and useful;
> work in fairly big quanta of time; when you restart, begin by
> rereading what you have so far; when you finish, leave yourself
> something easy to start with; accumulate notes for topics you plan
> to cover at the bottom of the file; don't feel obliged to cover any
> of them; write for a reader who won't read the essay as carefully as
> you do, just as pop songs are designed to sound ok on crappy car
> radios; if you say anything mistaken, fix it immediately; ask
> friends which sentence you'll regret most; go back and tone down
> harsh remarks; publish stuff online, because an audience makes you
> write more, and thus generate more ideas; print out drafts instead
> of just looking at them on the screen; use simple, germanic words;
> learn to distinguish surprises from digressions; learn to recognize
> the approach of an ending, and when one appears, grab it.

P: 
>(Write a bad version 1 as fast as you can)[1], (rewrite it over and
>over)[2], (cut ~~out~~ everything unnecessary)[3]

E1: For my summary on [Talent Is Overrated](/deliberate-practice.html), I wrote a rough version
in 5 hrs[1] followed by 3 editions of the same text taking 8 hrs, 4
hrs and then 45 mins respectively[2]. The rough version has spelling
mistakes, formatting errors, lots of text dump. I reduced the word
count drastically (30 to 50%) by the final edition [3].

E2: for example...

**Bad version**
The purpose of life is to save people because that is what you want
to do. Imagine you are walking on the street and see a baby floating
in the water (i.e., a massive chance of dying), wouldn't you save it?
Now think of a child in Africa who is starving, boy that motherfucker
is hungry as hell for so 5 days and no one is able to help him, he is
a fucking kid, and here you are deciding which phone to buy and
worrying about it. I was recently starving my ass off and very much
needed food but would have to go through some tasks before getting to
it, imagine being like that every single time. What should you do with
your money again? 

**First rewrite**
The purpose of life is to save as many people as possible, in the
present and in the future. The value of life is X, saving nX lives
gets you n times the value.

Imagine the pain of starving. I very badly wanted to eat at 4 pm one
day. but I had to weight train and then do some strenuous cardio and
then go back somewhere and find my food and heat it up. It was 7pm. I
was pushing every ounce of motivation towards keeping me upright and
finishing my work. A starving child in Africa has to starve more than
often. All you have to do is not eat that chocolate, or not eat
outside and he could eat a glorious meal and send that money out to
some NGO. How could I be justified in eating a chocolate while an
innocent kid for no fault of his starve.

**Second re-write**

I have 10$ and I have the option to allow an innocent kid far far away
to starve (a kid who has probably been starving for atleast a meal
before) or go to a nice Indian restaurant. The choice is simple in'it?
What should I be doing again?

---

P: 
>write in a conversational tone;[4]

E: I think this means, write like you talk. The following is an example.

**Just writing**
>Traditionally, such design tasks are handled by artificially raising
>the level of the static load by introducing a factor of safety, which
>is meant to compensate for the unknown variations of the actual
>loads.

**Writing like your talking!**
Traditionally such design tasks are handled by artificially raising
the level of the static load, i.e., factor of safety design. This is
expected to compensate for the variations in the actual load.

Ok, So do not write ridiculously wrong sentences. Speak what you want
to write inside your head and then write it

---

P:
> develop a nose for bad writing[5], so you can see and fix it in
> yours[6]; imitate writers you like[7];

E: An exercise like [this](http://pradeep90.github.io/deliberate-practice.html), "deliberate practice for writing", shows
how to develop a nose for good and bad writing and how to fix it. In
the process you end up imitating the writers you like as you use their
work as reference.

Benjamin Franklin took the Spectator and made notes of it and after a
few days, re-wrote them in his own words. In the end he compared his
work to the original and understood what all he could do better. He
focussed on one skill at a time such as writing organization
vocabulary etc... This he did many many times to become "America's
first great man of letters". [5,6,7]

--- 

P: 
> use anaphora to knit sentences together[8]

E: DP is hard DP is repetition DP is a lot about feedback DP is painful
DP is needed DP is going to make you a legend


---

P: 
> work in fairly big quanta of time[9]

E: I don't work on essays or even data science if I have less than 2 hrs
to give it. Usually I finish all my work and have like 3-4 hrs left at
the end of the day, when I pick up essay writing.

---
P: 
> use simple, germanic words[10]; learn to distinguish surprises from
> digressions[11]; learn to recognize the approach of an ending, and
> when one appears, grab it[12].

E: I have no idea what germanic words mean [10]. I don't have an example
for [12] either.

In the last essay on [DP](/DP-CT-examples.html), I was following the Benjamin Franklin
method and trying to find out how I compared to an essay written by an
STM. I was writing some final words, when I jumped out of my way to
write about Unconscious consistency. It was nice for me to understand
that separately, but it didn't fit in the context and I put it in as a
note. This seems like a digression[11].

In the essay on my [Career-Research](/Summary-before-applying-to-80k.html), I was calculating the impact
due to various careers and saw that there was a difference of
sometimes a 100 people, and I didn't pay too much care for it, but
realized while writing further that I was valuing the life of 100
people much much less than what they were worth. This was a surprising
insight[11].

P: 
> expect 80% of the ideas in an essay to happen after you start
> writing it, and 50% of those you start with to be wrong;

E: I don't have an example. But I usually don't plan my writing. All
my thinking happens only during writing. So I write, write and write.

<!-- 16 at the end of this -->


### My cover letter

### article by eliezer on Availabilty(9 done)

> The availability heuristic is (judging the frequency or probability
> of an event, by the ease with which examples of the event come to
> mind)[1].
>
> A famous 1978 study by Lichtenstein, Slovic, Fischhoff, Layman, and
> Combs, "Judged Frequency of Lethal Events", (studied errors in
> quantifying the severity of risks, or judging which of two dangers
> occurred more frequently)[2]. Subjects thought that accidents caused
> about as many deaths as disease; thought that homicide was a more
> frequent cause of death than suicide. Actually, diseases cause about
> 16 times as many deaths as accidents, and suicide is twice as
> frequent as homicide.

> An obvious hypothesis to account for these skewed beliefs is that
> murders are more likely to be talked about than suicides - thus,
> someone is more likely to recall hearing about a murder than hearing
> about a suicide. Accidents are more dramatic than diseases - perhaps
> this makes people more likely to remember, or more likely to recall,
> an accident. In 1979, a followup study by Combs and Slovic showed
> that the skewed probability judgments correlated strongly (.85 and
> .89) with skewed reporting frequencies in two newspapers.  This
> doesn't disentangle whether murders are more available to memory
> because they are more reported-on, or whether newspapers report more
> on murders because murders are more vivid (hence also more
> remembered). But either way, an availability bias is at work.


P: judging the frequency or probability of an event, by the ease with
which examples of the event come to mind

E: (paraphrasing) " According to a study there was a high correlation
between reporting frequencies in two newspapers and the guess that
murders were more frequent than suicides"

P: errors in quantifying the severity of risks, or judging which of
two dangers occurred more frequently

E: "subjects thought accidents caused about as many deaths as disease,
but diseases cause about 16 times as many deaths as accident."

---

> (Selective reporting is one major source of availability biases)[1].
> In the ancestral environment, much of what you knew, you experienced
> yourself; or you heard it directly from a fellow tribe-member who
> had seen it. There was usually at most one layer of selective
> reporting between you, and the event itself. With today's Internet,
> you may see reports that have passed through the hands of six
> bloggers on the way to you - six successive filters. Compared to our
> ancestors, we live in a larger world, in which far more happens, and
> far less of it reaches us - a much stronger selection effect, which
> can create much larger availability biases.


> In real life, you're unlikely to ever meet Bill Gates.  But thanks
> to selective reporting by the media, you may be tempted to compare
> your life success to his - and suffer hedonic penalties accordingly.
> The objective frequency of Bill Gates is 0.00000000015, but you hear
> about him much more often.  Conversely, 19% of the planet lives on
> less than $1/day, and I doubt that one fifth of the blog posts you
> read are written by them.


P: Selective reporting is one major source of availability biases

E: "The objective frequency of Bill Gates is 0.00000000015, but you
maybe tempter to compare your life success to his. Conversely, 19% of
the planet lives on less than $1/day, and I doubt that one fifth of
the blog posts you read are written by them."

---

> (Using availability seems to give rise to an absurdity bias)[1];
> events that have never happened, are not recalled, and hence deemed
> to have probability zero. When no flooding has recently occurred
> (and yet the probabilities are still fairly calculable), people
> refuse to buy flood insurance even when it is heavily subsidized and
> priced far below an actuarially fair value. Kunreuther
> et. al. (1993) suggests underreaction to threats of flooding may
> arise from "the inability of individuals to conceptualize floods
> that have never occurred... (Men on flood plains appear to be very
> much prisoners of their experience)[]... Recently experienced floods
> appear to set an upward bound to the size of loss with which
> managers believe they ought to be concerned."

> Burton et. al. (1978) report that when dams and levees are built,
> they reduce the frequency of floods, and thus apparently create a
> false sense of security, leading to reduced precautions. While
> building dams decreases the frequency of floods, damage per flood is
> afterward so much greater that average yearly damage increases.

P: Using availability seems to give rise to an absurdity bias

E: "Burton et. al. (1978) report that when dams and levees are built,
they reduce the frequency of floods, and thus apparently create a
false sense of security, leading to reduced precautions. While
building dams decreases the frequency of floods, damage per flood is
afterward so much greater that average yearly damage increases."

---

> (The wise would extrapolate from a memory of small hazards to the
> possibility of large hazards)[1]. (Instead, past experience of small
> hazards seems to set a perceived upper bound on risk)[2]. (A society
> well-protected against minor hazards takes no action against major
> risks)[3], building on flood plains once the regular minor floods
> are eliminated. (A society subject to regular minor hazards treats
> those minor hazards as an upper bound on the size of the risks)[4],
> guarding against regular minor floods but not occasional major
> floods.
>
> (Memory is not always a good guide to probabilities in the past, let
> alone the future)[5].

P: The wise would extrapolate from memory of small hazards to the
possibility of large hazards

E: We recently had a mild earthquake in India. I think what Eliezer is
trying to say is that we should look at understanding the probability
of a bigger earthquake and possibly get an insurance on it as the
damage could bring you to a 0$ bank balance.

P: Instead, past experience of small hazards seems to set a perceived
upper bound on risk

E: "Building of dams and levees lead to reduced precautions"

P: A society well-protected against minor hazards takes no action
against major risks; A society subject to regular minor hazards treats
those minor hazards as an upper bound on the size of the risks

E: Burton et. al. (1978) report that when dams and levees are built, 
they reduce the frequency of floods, and thus apparently create a 
false sense of security, leading to reduced precautions.

P: Memory is not always a good guide to probabilities in the past, let
alone the future.

E: People think suicide is more common than homicide, based on
selective reporting. But that is wrong. When predictions in the past
are already wrong, and if extrapolation of the past is a way to see in
the future, then the future is also going to be wrong.

### Article by Eliezer on scope insensitivity (12)

> Once upon a time, three groups of subjects were asked how much they
> would pay to save 2000 / 20000 / 200000 migrating birds from
> drowning in uncovered oil ponds. The groups respectively answered
> $80, $78, and $88. This is (scope insensitivity or scope
> neglect)[1]: the number of birds saved - the scope of the altruistic
> action - had little effect on willingness to pay.
>
> Similar experiments showed that Toronto residents would pay little
> more to clean up all polluted lakes in Ontario than polluted lakes
> in a particular region of Ontario, or that residents of four western
> US states would pay only 28% more to protect all 57 wilderness areas
> in those states than to protect a single area.
>

P: scope insensitivity or scope neglect

E: Once upon a time, three groups of subjects were asked how much they
would pay to save 2000 / 20000 / 200000 migrating birds from
drowning in uncovered oil ponds. The groups respectively answered
$80, $78, and $88.

Toronto residents would pay little more to clean up all polluted lakes
in Ontario than polluted lakes in a particular region of Ontario, or
that residents of four western US states would pay only 28% more to
protect all 57 wilderness areas in those states than to protect a
single area.

> People visualize "a single exhausted bird, its feathers soaked in
> black oil, unable to escape". (This image, or prototype, calls forth
> some level of emotional arousal)[1] that is primarily responsible
> for willingness-to-pay - and the image is the same in all cases. (As
> for scope, it gets tossed out the window)[2] - no human can
> visualize 2000 birds at once, let alone 200000. The usual finding is
> that exponential increases in scope create linear increases in
> willingness-to-pay - perhaps corresponding to the linear time for
> our eyes to glaze over the zeroes; (this small amount of affect is
> added, not multiplied, with the prototype affect)[3]. This
> hypothesis is known as ("valuation by prototype")[4].

P: This image, or prototype, calls forth some level of emotional
arousal [1]

E: Emotional arousal like feeling sad or crying or disturbed mentally.

P: As for the scope, it gets tossed out of the window [2]

E: "No human can visualize 2000 birds at once, let alone 200000".

P: this small amount of affect is added, not multiplied, with the
prototype affect [3]

E: Studies show that people pay 80$, 78$ and 88$ when asked about
saving 2k, 20k and 200k birds respectively.

P: Valuation of prototype [4]

E: Value of 2k, 20k, and 200k birds, being in the same order.

> An alternative hypothesis is "(purchase of moral
> satisfaction)[1]". People spend enough money to create a warm glow
> in themselves, a sense of having done their duty. The (level of
> spending needed to purchase a warm glow depends on personality and
> financial situation)[2], (but it certainly has nothing to do with
> the number of birds)[3].

P: Purchase of moral satisfaction [1]

E: "People spend enough money to create a warm glow in themselves, a
sense of having done their duty"

P: Level of spending needed to purchase a warm glow depends on
personality and financial situation [2]

E: I would easily donate 10$ without really getting into the cause. If
it was Bill Gates he would probably give 100$ or more without thought.

P: but it certainly has noting to do with the number of birds [3]

E: Value of 2k, 20k, and 200k birds, being in the same order.

> (We are insensitive to scope even when human lives are at stake)[1]:
> Increasing the alleged risk of chlorinated drinking water from 0.004
> to 2.43 annual deaths per 1000 - a factor of 600 - increased
> willingness-to-pay from $3.78 to $15.23. Baron and Greene found no
> effect from varying lives saved by a factor of 10 .

P: We are insensitive to scope even when human lives are at stake[1].

E: "WTP increased from 3.78$ to 15.23$ even though there was a factor
600 increase.

> A paper entitled Insensitivity to the value of human life: A study
> of psychological numbing collected evidence that our (perception of
> human deaths follows Weber's Law - obeys a logarithmic scale where
> the "just noticeable difference" is a constant fraction of the
> whole)[1]. A proposed health program to save the lives of Rwandan
> refugees garnered far higher support when it promised to save 4,500
> lives in a camp of 11,000 refugees, rather than 4,500 in a camp of
> 250,000. A potential disease cure had to promise to save far more
> lives in order to be judged worthy of funding, if the disease was
> originally stated to have killed 290,000 rather than 160,000 or
> 15,000 people per year.

P: perception of human deaths obeys logarithmic scale where the "just
noticeable difference" is a constant fraction of the whole

E: "if 4500 people were saved out of 11000 people, then the perception
of human deaths is higher, than if 4500 people were saved out of 250k
people."

[Webers law](http://apps.usd.edu/coglab/WebersLaw.html)


> The moral: (If you want to be an effective altruist, you have to
> think it through with the part of your brain that processes those
> unexciting inky zeroes on paper)[1], not just (the part that gets
> real worked up about that poor struggling oil-soaked bird)[2].

P: if you want to be an effective altruist, you have to think it
through with the part of your brain that processes those unexciting
inky zeroes on paper[1]

E: if value of 2k birds = 80$ then 20k birds = 80$*1000

P: if you want to be an effective altruist it is not enough to get
worked up about poor struggling oil-soaked bird[2]

E: 2k, 20k, 200k birds will all mean the same to you.




### Article by Paul graham on schelps

> There are ((great startup ideas)[1] lying around unexploited right
> under our noses)[2]. One reason we don't see them is a phenomenon I call
> (schlep blindness)[3]. Schlep was originally a Yiddish word but has
> passed into general use in the US. It means a (tedious, unpleasant
> task)[4].

> No one likes schleps, but hackers especially (dislike them)[5]. Most
> hackers who start startups wish they could do it by just writing
> some clever software, putting it on a server somewhere, and watching
> the money roll in—without ever having to talk to users, or negotiate
> with other companies, or deal with other people's broken code. Maybe
> that's possible, but I haven't seen it.

P: great startup ideas

E: Dropbox, ASML, Paypal, Tesla (greatness measured by success)

P: great startup ideas lying around unexploited right under our noses

E: perhaps an NGO that works with the government to provide free or
dirt cheap extensive health care for all in need

P: tedious, unpleasant task

E: I am discouraged to pursue it as there is so many things involved,
it will probably not happen within my lifetime!, you have to penetrate
into the government SOMEHOW, you need to make deals, you need to
followup, there will be power changes etc... and you need to deal with
all of this before such a thing happens I guess

E2: I worked in a company where there were 40 designers sharing one
license of part of software. Not many people used it often but when I
needed it I always had to beg around and ask for it and waste quite
some time. To fix it I would need to talk to a few people who have the
problem, escalate it to the VP of the company and keep following it up
for months before I see any follow up. I didn't. I just left it as I
was somehow able to finish my work.  Then it happened again. I
escalated it.

P: people dislike schleps

E: I guess the one thing that is stopping me from pursuing starting or
joining an NGO to support healthcare for the poor, is all the work
that I need to do, right from my education, to handling uncertainty of
such an initiative (mainly coming from schleps?)


> One of the many things we do at Y Combinator is teach hackers about
> (the inevitability of schleps)[6]. No, you can't start a startup by just
> writing code. I remember going through this realization
> myself. There was a point in 1995 when I was still trying to
> convince myself I could start a company by just writing code. But I
> soon learned from experience that schleps are not merely inevitable,
> but pretty much what business consists of. A company is defined by
> the schleps it will undertake. And schleps should be dealt with the
> same way you'd deal with a cold swimming pool: just jump in. Which
> is not to say you should seek out unpleasant work per se, but that
> you should (never shrink from it if it's on the path to something
> great.)[7]

P: the inevitability of schleps

E: Buying groceries has schleps (you need to go there, stand in que),
buying groceries online has schleps (you freaking need to be home for
2 hrs to collect it), 

I wan't to be able to clock hours after hours in the silent room in
the library, but guess what, I need to cook, I need to pack my work in
bags, unfreeze the food for the next day, clean plates, buy the
missing ingredients from stores that close before 10pm.

You want to find another house where the roof doesn't creek and is in
the same city of your work? #Schleps. You need to find someone for
your current place, you need to find a new place within the Budget.

Schleps got to be done.

P: never shrink from it if it's on the path to something great

E: You still need to eat, live in a place of mental peace so you need
to put in the work of cooking and storing the food and finding a roof
above your head that allows you to sleep on time.

> The most dangerous thing about our dislike of schleps is that much
> of it is unconscious. (Your unconscious won't even let you see ideas
> that involve painful schleps)[8]. That's schlep blindness.
>
> The phenomenon isn't limited to startups. Most people don't
> consciously decide not to be in as good physical shape as Olympic
> athletes, for example. Their unconscious mind decides for them,
> shrinking from the work involved.

P: Your unconscious won't even let you see ideas that involve painful
schleps

E: "Most people don't consciously decide not to be in as good physical
shape as Olympic athletes, for example. Their unconscious mind decides
for them, shrinking from the work involved."

E2: I freaking don't go to a phisio but complain to myself for the
last 3-5 months everytime I go to the gym because of
#schleps. Wow. The Schleps though is that I keep a schedule and I hate
it if it gets disturbed, I have to call the phisio during the schedule
("I don't have time you see")

Before and after every basket ball session, I need to warm up and cool
down my leg muscles, but I don't cause it is a schlep.

I hesitate like hell to spend 20$ additional to my monthly budget on
foam roller (but spend much more money on all sorts of shit), because
of schleps? The task of loosing even a few $ is inherently a schlep.

> The (most striking example)[9] I know of schlep blindness is Stripe, or
> rather Stripe's idea. For over a decade, every hacker who'd ever had
> to process payments online knew how painful the experience
> was. Thousands of people must have known about this problem. And yet
> when they started startups, they decided to build recipe sites, or
> aggregators for local events. Why? Why work on problems few care
> much about and no one will pay for, when you could fix one of the
> most important components of the world's infrastructure? Because
> schlep blindness prevented people from even considering the idea of
> fixing payments.

P: most striking example

E: stripe took the hardest problem (considering schleps), and
solved it despite so many people having the same problem

> Probably no one who applied to Y Combinator to work on a recipe site
> began by asking "should we fix payments, or build a recipe site?"
> and chose the recipe site. (Though the idea of fixing payments was
> right there in plain sight, they never saw it, because their
> unconscious mind shrank from the complications involved)[10]. You'd have
> to make deals with banks. How do you do that? Plus you're moving
> money, so you're going to have to deal with fraud, and people trying
> to break into your servers. Plus there are probably all sorts of
> regulations to comply with. It's a lot more intimidating to start a
> startup like this than a recipe site.

P: Though the idea of fixing payments was right there in plain sight,
they never saw it, because their unconscious mind shrank from the
complications involved.

E: You'd have to make deals with banks. How do you do that? Plus
you're moving money, so you're going to have to deal with fraud, and
people trying to break into your servers. Plus there are probably all
sorts of regulations to comply with. It's a lot more intimidating to
start a startup like this than a recipe site.

> (That scariness makes ambitious ideas doubly valuable)[11]. In
> addition to (their intrinsic value)[12], (they're like undervalued
> stocks)[13] in the sense that there's less demand for them among
> founders. If you (pick an ambitious idea, you'll have less
> competition)[14], because everyone else will have been frightened off
> by the challenges involved. (This is also true of starting a startup
> generally)[15].

P: that scariness makes ambitious ideas doubly valuable

E: No one made Stripe before and once Stripe came in they had the
whole market to themselves, unlike other startups making recipe sites
at Y combinator

P: their intrinsic value

E: ??

P: their undervalued stocks

E: "there is less demand for them from founders", but they are
cash cows

P: if you pick up an ambitious idea, you'll have less competition;
this is also true of starting a startup generally

E: Stripe had 0 competitors when they started.

SpaceX's by far extremely ambitious with its plans to go to Mars, and
guess what 0 competition.

Tesla is pioneering the way of the future and has only one other
serious competitor P: This is also true of starting a startup
generally.

if you want to become an olympic medalist in figure skating, you a few
10s in competition at that level


> How do you (overcome schlep blindness)[]? Frankly, (the most valuable
> antidote to schlep blindness is probably ignorance)[]. Most successful
> founders would probably say that if they'd known when they were
> starting their company about the obstacles they'd have to overcome,
> they might never have started it. Maybe that's one reason the most
> successful startups of all so often have young founders.

P: overcome schlep blindness

E: Starting Tesla, Starting Space X, Starting Stripe 

P: the most valuable antidote to schlep blindness is probably
ignorance

E: If Elon Musk knew the type of problems he would face such as
constant backlash with investors, constantly being scrutinized by the
public, having to stay at work 24x7 while accelerating the progress of
humanity, he probably woudn't have started.(bold claim, please read
with caution)

Someone from Indian Institute of Technology started Ather Energy,
which is similar in concept to Tesla but for India and they are for
bikes, not cars. When the two founders started they didn't have a
strong idea of what all they needed to tackle, how to handle the
problem of charging the vehicles, how to sell the product, are people
going to even buy it, is there a market for it, who is going to fund
such an idea? What about competing with other vehicles. Atleast they
were not too concerned with it. All they wanted to do was build
electric vehicles. The city needed a better class of electric vehicles
and they were going to give it.

Initially they wanted to come up with battery swap. The logistical
nightmare it would be, was ridiculous. He had some ideas of tackling
it but was not really worried about it. (ignorance?)



> In practice the (founders grow with the problems)[]. But no one seems
> able to foresee that, not even older, more experienced founders. So
> the reason younger founders have an advantage is that (they make two
> mistakes that cancel each other out)[]. They don't know how much they
> can grow, but they also don't know how much they'll need to. Older
> founders only make the first mistake.

P: founders grow with problems

E: Today Ather Energy are killing it, having been backed by some of
the giants in the industry, attempting to revolutionize e-bikes in a
country like India. Every single problem I talked about, they seem to
have grown to handle it. For example, if people need to charge their
bikes, they decided to give them charging stations with quick charging
in several locations. They introduced a bunch of features using
smart phones to locate them and check if the stations are free. They
have started this already in Banglore and trying to expand to other
cities.

P: They (young founders) make two mistakes that cancel each other out

E: They don't know how much they can grow, but they also don't know
how much they'll need to.


> (Ignorance can't solve everything though)[]. (Some ideas so obviously
> entail alarming schleps that anyone can see them)[]. How do you see
> ideas like that? The trick I recommend is to (take yourself out of
> the picture)[]. Instead of asking ("what problem should I solve?" ask
> "what problem do I wish someone else would solve for me?")[] If someone
> who had to process payments before Stripe had tried asking that,
> Stripe would have been one of the first things they wished for.
>
> It's too late now to be Stripe, but there's plenty still broken in
> the world, if you know how to see it.

P: ignorance can't solve everything though

E: if you don't see the problem its is one thing but what if you do?

P: 

E: Ather Energy knew that no one would come forward to providing
charging stations. Without Charging stations infrastructure their
product was going to fail. [It was a chicken and egg problem. The
infrastructure companies would have to see enough demand to provide
charging stations, and only if there are enough charging stations, the
company making e-bikes could survive.](https://youtu.be/iecq6vSr-EQ?t=1399) So they decided to take that
on as well. Ather Grid.

### Article by PG on business plan(37...)

> I recently found what I think is Viaweb's original (business plan)[1]. I
> didn't know what a business plan was supposed to have in it, so I
> just wrote down what I thought was important (in plain text, to make
> it easy to send by email).
>
> The company was called "Webgen" at first. We thought we only needed
> $15,000 in startup capital; this proved to be an underestimate.

P: business plan[1] 

E: The entire business plan is shown here.

> Reading this, you can see that even we were still trying to grasp
> what a web-based application was. In the system description we
> listed the (site generator)[1] and the (web interface)[2] as separate
> components; now one would just think of them as a (web-based site
> generator)[3]. And we still thought that some users would prefer to
> update their sites via email than via a browser, because using a web
> browser was such (an esoteric skill)[4].
>
> MarketplaceMCI was the big power in e-commerce at the time. They had
> a (service bureau model)[5], but they created (nice looking sites)[6]. Our
> original page design imitated theirs.

P: site generator [1]

E: Github, Wordpress, Blogger

P: Web interface [2]

E: Browser?

P: Web-based site generator [3]

E: Wordpress, Blogger

P: an esoteric skill [4]

E: like playing the dijiredoo for example, not many people have the
knowledge about it.

P: Service bureau model [5]

E: MarketplaceMCI offering business services

P: Nice looking sites [6]

E: "MarketplaceMCI sites which Webgen ended up copying as they looked
nice."

> Sketch of a business plan for Webgen. 24 Aug 95.
>
> OVERVIEW
>
> Webgen allows clients to generate (web catalogs)[1] remotely.
>
> There are (several other companies that can generate and serve web
> catalogs)[2]. The best known site of this type is Marketplace MCI
> (www.internetmci.com). But while these other sites use their
> generators in-house to build catalogs from materials provided by
> clients, Webgen's generator can be used interactively by anyone with
> a modem and a copy of Netscape.
>
> This will (lower the cost)[3] of putting a catalog online by, say,
> 90%. It also means that our (volume is not limited by the number of
> clients we can serve personally)[4]. We would be a (software
> company)[5], (not a service company)[6].
>

P: web catalogs [1]

E: a catalog of products like [this?](https://www.festo.com/cat/en-us_us/products)

P: several other companies that can generate and serve web catalogs [2]

E: "Marketplace MCI (www.internetmci.com)

P: lower the cost [3]

E: "by 90%"

P: Volume is not limited by the number of client we can serve
personally.[4]

E: Alphabet serves billions of people, where as Mckinsey serves a
limited number of clients. Alphabet is not limited by the number of
clients they can serve personally.

P: Software company [5]

E: Alphabet, Facebook, Microsoft, Accenture, IBM

P: Service company [6]

E: MarketplaceMCI, Mckinsey 


> Anyone will be able to sign up to keep a catalog at our site for a
> flat monthly fee. And we have made Webgen (so easy to use)[1] that
> any graphic designer or "web consultant" can generate catalogs with
> it. So instead of approaching catalog companies with an offer to put
> their catalog on the web, we will let them do it themselves.
>
> Suppose you are running (a catalog company)[2]. Today, if you want to
> have (an online catalog that people can order from)[3], you have two
> options. You can have a company like MCI create and serve it for
> you, or you can set up your own server. Both options are
> expensive. When our service goes online for real, (you will be able
> to do it in-house)[4]: anyone who can use Netscape can generate catalogs
> at Webgen.

P: So easy to use [1]

E: "any graphic designer or "web consultant" can generate catalogs"

P: a catalog company [2]

E: similar to Amazon, flipkart 

P: an online catalog that people can order from [3]

E: Amazon and flipkart, where you can see and buy from.

P: do it in-house [4]

E: "anyone who can use netscape can generate catalogs at Webgen"

> (There are a large number of companies who would like to be able to
> market products on the web)[1], (if it were cheaper and easier)[2]. To our
> knowledge, Webgen is the *only* system that can tap this market.
>
> As the market matures, we would consider spinning off a standalone
> catalog generator/server as a commercial product.

P: Large number of companies who would like to able to market products
online [1]

E: No examples given by PG surprisingly, it's not within the scope of
this essay

P: if it were cheaper and easier [2]

E: "90% cheaper than others, and a graphic designer being able to do
it"


> HOW BIG A DEAL IS WEBGEN?
>
> Even (assuming it succeeds)[1], what are the prospects for Webgen? How
> big a role in the future of the Internet will a company like Webgen
> play?
>
> The answer, perhaps surprisingly, seems to be: (a very big
> role)[2]. (Technical people and business people)[3] agree, the web is going
> to be important. A large part of the web's importance will come from
> online commerce. And Webgen could, in turn, be involved in a large
> part of the online commerce.

P: assuming if it succeeds [1]

E: if the company makes profits or if the company has more than 100
clients?

P: a very big role[2]

E: "A large part of web's importance will come from online
commerce. And Webgen could, in turn, be involved in a large part of
the online commerce." ( as it is currently the only easy-to-use
generator)

P: Technical people and business people [3]

E: No examples are given, out of scope of this essay.


> Why? Forget about Webgen for a moment, and just ask: what will the
> (future of online commerce look like)[1]? (When someone wants to sell
> things on the Web, how will they do it)[2]? At the moment, they can
> either go to a company like MCI, or set up their own server. But
> what will they do a year or two from now? Ten years from now?
>
> (If selling things online were like other software applications, the
> future of the market would be general-purpose software packages)[3]. You
> would eventually be able to buy a copy of Microsoft Catalog, and use
> that to put your catalog online.

> There are a couple reasons why this is not likely to happen anytime
> soon. The main problem is, (an online catalog is not just something
> that happens on your own computer)[4], like word-processing. It has to
> be on a web server, with encrypted transactions, a high-bandwidth
> network connection, 100% uptime, security, backups, order tracking,
> and so on. (Setting up a server is expensive and difficult)[5]. On the
> East coast, the network connection alone costs about $2000/mo.

P: future of online commerce look like

E: (paragraph 2) "the future of the market would be general-purpose
software packages"

P: When someone wants to sell things on the Web, how will they do it

E: "Either go an MCI or set up your own server

P: if selling things online were like other software applications, the
future of the market would be general-purpose software packages

E: "You would eventually be able to buy a copy of Microsoft Catalog,
and use that to put your catalog online."

P: an online catalog is not just something that happens on your
computer

E: "like word processing"

P: it needs other things

E: web server, encrypted transactions

P: Setting up a server is expensive

E: "On the east coast, the network connection alone costs about
$2000/mo"

P: difficult

E: ...

> So the next best solution is to have a (general-purpose catalog
> generator)[1], but have someone else handle the server
> part. *And that's exactly what Webgen is.* Webgen is Microsoft
> Catalog, or as close as anything's going to get. Don't be led astray
> by the fact that the software is going to run on our machines. (With
> networks, it no longer matters whether the program you're using is
> running on your own computer or not)[2]. Using Webgen will be just
> like using any off-the- shelf software package, except that users
> won't have to install anything.


P: general purpose generator [1]

E: like Microsoft catalog

P: With networks, it no longer matters whether the program you're
using is running on your own computer or not [2]

E: "like using any off-the-shelf software package, except that users
won't have to install anything"


> What's more, our software will "run" on everyone's machine, updates
> will be free and instant, and (the interface will be one the users
> already know)[1], Netscape.

P: interface will be one the users already know [1]

E: Netscape

> (The idea behind Webgen)[1] is a lot like the one that made
> Kodak. Before Kodak came along, (if you took a photo, you had to
> develop it)[2]. If an ordinary person wanted to have his photo
> taken, he went to a photographer's studio, (just as you might go to
> MCI to put your catalog online today)[3].

P: idea behind Webgen

E: a lot like Kodak

P: if you made you catalog, you had to serve it

E: if you took a photo, you had to develop it

P: just as you might go to MCI to put your catalog online

E: "if an ordinary person wanted to have his photo taken, he went to a
studio"

> Eastman sold a camera everyone could use, plus the promise to handle
> the messy, (capital-intensive part)[1]---developing the film.
>
> We sell a catalog generator everyone can use, plus the promise to
> handle the messy, capital-intensive part---serving the pages.

P: capital intensive part

E: "developing the film, serving the pages"

> Of course, (really high-end customers will want to set up their own
> servers)[1], just as high-end photography customers develop their
> own photos. We would not rule out setting up clones of Webgen for
> them. But we believe that we will be more successful if we think of
> ourselves as (selling a product)[2] rather than (a
> service)[3]. Webgen could be the Kodak of online commerce. Someone
> will be.

P: really high-end customers will want to setup their own servers

E: "just as high end photography customers will develop their own
photos"

P: selling a product

E: like Kodak cameras

P: selling a service

E: like MCI

37

---

> THE SYSTEM
>
> Webgen's formula has three ingredients:
>
> 1. A server (www.webgen.com) that can serve catalogs and support
>    ordering.
>
> 2. A generator that can generate catalogs to be served at the site.
>
> 3. An interface that allows users anywhere on the web to modify and
>    regenerate their catalogs interactively.
>
> The site is already up and running, though at present the only
> catalog on the server is one that we made for demos. All three
> ingredients already work. (The demo catalog can be seen by following
> the "Clients" link on our home page, which is at
> http://www.webgen.com)
>
> We are now polishing the software to make it faster and easier to
> use, but we believe it is already the most sophisticated web catalog
> generator available. Webgen can do several things that we do not
> believe any other generator can do:
>
> 1. The big win, of course, is the interactive interface. It is this
>    that makes it possible for Webgen to be a software company that
>    sells its generator to everyone, instead of service company that
>    uses it in-house.
>
> But even compared to the generators that companies like MCI use
> in-house, we believe Webgen is more sophisticated:
>
> 2. Webgen generates all the buttons in a site
>    automatically. Sophisticated web sites have buttons that are
>    images instead of text links. Usually these button images are
>    made by hand in a program like Photoshop. We believe our
>    generator is the first to create all the buttons in a site
>    automatically.
>
> This is a great advantage to users, because it means they will be
> able to control even the way the buttons in their site look via our
> remote interface. For example, if they want the text in buttons to
> be in Times instead of Helvetica (the default), they will be able to
> do this with a single menu choice on our remote interface. The next
> time they look at their site, all the button texts will be in Times.
>
> 3. Webgen creates all the thumbnail images itself. The user only has
>    to supply the original (big) images of the items in the
>    catalog. Because the thumbnails are generated by the software,
>    they can all be the same height, leading to a more consistent set
>    of pages. (Compare our demo to existing online catalogs in this
>    respect.)
>
> 4. Webgen has a wide variety of page styles. Our default section
>    style, for example, puts three thumbnails horizontally across
>    each page. But there are already six other possible section
>    styles. By making menu choices, clients will be able to have the
>    section laid out instead with a single picture and lettered
>    items, or with with thumbnails laid out vertically, or even
>    diagonally. There will be a comparable number of options for the
>    layout of the individual item pages and the home page.
>
> 5. For each catalog, Webgen builds an index and creates a database
>    that is used by a search script running on our server. Users will
>    be able to find items in any catalog at our site either by
>    looking in the index or doing a search by keyword.
>
> 6. As well as an interactive interface, Webgen has a command
>    language for batch updates to catalogs. Commands can be sent to
>    the server by email and the catalogs regenerated
>    automatically. This will be useful for clients who want to
>    "attach" their catalog to an inventory control system. Because it
>    takes only a minute or two at most to regenerate a large catalog,
>    clients could make their online catalogs reflect minute-by-minute
>    changes in inventory--- as simply as sending us email, and at no
>    extra cost.
>
> HOW PEOPLE WILL USE IT
>
> We expect that we will have two kinds of users:
>
> (A) Sometimes the user will be the catalog company itself. Webgen is
> so easy to use that a catalog company could very well designate
> someone in-house to manage their online catalog.
>
> (B) Otherwise the user will be one of the growing army of "web
> consultants", acting on behalf of a catalog company. The consultant
> will pass on, and mark up, the flat fee that we charge. We expect
> that such VARs will work aggressively to sell the service to catalog
> companies. With Webgen, any web consultant will be able to approach
> a catalog company and propose to put its catalog online for much
> less than the current going rate, and still pocket a large markup.
>
> In either case, using Webgen will be the same:
>
> 1. The client will contact us and set up a new account. We will
>    assign them a username and a password, and also register a new
>    domain name, if they want one. Every catalog on our site will be
>    able to have its own direct URL of the form
>
> http://www.yourcompany.com
>
> if the client desires.
>
> 2. To build a catalog, Webgen needs two things: images of the items
>    contained in it, and text including the price, item number,
>    description, and so on.
>
> There will be several ways for the user to send us these raw
> materials. They can type the text directly into our remote
> interface, or they can send it to our server by email in a
> prespecified format.
>
> They will be able to send us the images by logging into their
> account on our server and FTPing them to a designated directory,
> from which the generator will grab them automatically. (Any
> connection good enough for netscape can also support FTP.) When
> browsers support email with attached images (which they promise to
> do soon) sending images to Webgen will be trivial.
>
> 3. After Webgen's server receives input through its remote
>    interface, or via email, it will automatically regenerate the
>    changed portions of the catalog. Changes will be visible to the
>    user via Netscape, usually within seconds.
>
> 4. When the user has made and inspected changes to a catalog, he or
>    she will send the server a "commit" message, causing the changed
>    catalog to be copied to its real URL. At this point the catalog
>    will become visible to consumers visiting the site.
>
> For security, the commit command will use one-time passwords. This
> way, even if someone gets the ordinary password of a user, they
> can't modify the catalog that actually appears at the site.
>
> 5. Clients that have a high-volume of orders will be given an
>    account on our server that they can use to retrieve them. If they
>    want, they can keep this connection open 24 hours per day,
>    generating a live feed of orders.
>
> Smaller clients will have orders forwarded to them by fax---an
> attractive alternative, because it is secure and uses familiar
> technology.
>
> DETAILS
>
> The flat fee would include a certain amount of network bandwidth
> (that is, visitors) per month. After this is exceeded, there may be
> a usage charge.
>
> Netscape has recently announced that it will support Java. This may
> eventually allow us to shift some of the running of the generator
> onto the clients' CPUs.
>
> PEOPLE
>
> At the moment, Webgen consists of the following four people:
>
> Paul Graham (pg@webgen.com) is an expert on dynamic languages. He is
> the author of _On Lisp_ (Prentice Hall, 1993) and _ANSI Common Lisp_
> (Prentice Hall, 1995). He has worked as a consultant to the US
> Department of Energy, DuPont (for whom he wrote one of the first
> parametric CAD programs), and Interleaf. He has an AB summa cum
> laude from Cornell, and a PhD in Computer Science from Harvard.
>
> Gino Lee (gino@webgen.com) is Tutor in Printing and Typography at
> Harvard University and is Director of the Bow & Arrow Press,
> Harvard's experimental typographic workshop; he teaches subjects
> including letterpress printing, design history, digital type design,
> and artist's books. He has been an independent digital type and
> graphic designer since 1989. In 1990 he won the Society of Printers'
> Award for Excellence.
>
> Robert Morris (rtm@webgen.com) is an expert on computer networks. He
> has published papers on high-speed networks, wireless
> communications, and computer security. While in high school he
> worked at Bell Labs, where he ported TCP/IP (the software on which
> the Internet is built) to Bell Labs' version of Unix. He later
> worked for Convex Computers, Thinking Machines, and DEC Systems
> Research Center. He has an AB in Computer Science from Harvard, and
> is currently a PhD candidate in Computer Science there.
>
> Julian Weber (jlw@webgen.com) has been practicing law in New York
> for over 30 years. From 1964 to 1979 he was a partner in the firm of
> Botein, Hays, and Sklar. From 1979 to 1984 he was the president of
> _The National Lampoon_. He holds a JD from Harvard Law School.
>
> Robert and Paul handle the software; Gino is in charge of graphic
> design; and Julian deals with corporate and legal questions. We are
> looking for one more person to manage business matters, especially
> dealing with the press, clients, and potential corporate partners.
>
> FINANCES
>
> Webgen has no capital. On the other hand, it costs very little to
> run it, at present. All our equipment is the personal property of
> the people involved, and the business has no other major
> expenses. No one has a salary.
>
> The company could be self-capitalizing, if necessary. That is, we
> could use income from initial clients to buy things that we could
> use to attract more clients.
>
> The business would grow a lot faster if we had about $15,000 to
> spend. This would get us:
>
> 1. A computer on which to develop software ($3000).
>
> 2. Secure server software ($5000). This does not seem to be an
>    absolute necessity; there are a lot of sites on the web where you
>    can send your credit card number unencrypted, and to date there
>    have been no reports of the numbers being stolen. But catalog
>    companies may *believe* that a secure link is necessary, and
>    spending this $5000 would give Webgen a much more professional
>    look.
>
> 3. A high-bandwidth Internet connection ($3000 + $350/month). At
>    present Webgen has only a 28.8kb connection. This will serve in
>    the initial stages, when we have few clients. For $350 a month we
>    can put a server at the site of an ISP and get a slice of their
>    T1 line. This also means buying another server, which costs
>    another $3000.
>
> Spending some money on advertising might also be a good idea.


### Reflection

## feedback

First day - lot of yawning. While identifying paragraphs to be worked
on and identifying sentences that need example.

Just identifying was boring max, a bit painful, lot of yawning and
mighty tendencies to get in shape

I think you need to keep typing, or do work related to that. When I
found out the sentences and tried making examples (# the real hard
work, I am feeling it)

feb 9the 18 hrs: The last one hr was alright! hard, not too intense, I
didn't sweat but making exampels is a biaaaatch

Day 2:

Managed 2*1.5 hr sessions roughly. But quite daunting. thinking of
examples and explaining them is hard. Plus my goal of 200 phrases
could be very hard! I am currently averaging about 10 examples in 1.5
hrs.


In the night: I realize I am trying to eat more than I can chew. I
come back after bbal to clock another hour. I feel more serious. I am
saying to myself, this is how it should be, grinding at top speed and
not anything slower. IT IS SUPPOSED TO BE PAINFUL! ONLY THEN YOU ARE
MAXING OUT. IT IS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE GOOD. Inshallah! indha vali
puduchuruu!

38 done by day 2


Day 3:

Boring hard, plan was to do 150 today. Started at 10:30 only. Slept
for half hour after lunch!

Did about 16+9+5 in about 2.7 hrs, that is still 10 per hour.

And feeling frustrated that sometimes I cannot come up with examples!

Day 4: 

Slept for half hour after lunch, 1 hr lunch and video watching. 

Working on PG article allowed to bump score decently today. Was hard
sometimes, but most was nice to work on (comfort zone)

Started working on cleaning up the essay.

Tomorrow another 50 and wrap up?
## The rules of DP (how it looks)

1. It’s designed specifically to improve performance.

2. It can be repeated a lot

3. mentally painful

4. feedback
## Archive: Where to find the 200 repetitions..

Other articels, my own articles,

for reasons that might be clear to everybody, I think it makes sense
to examplyfy or work on parts of articels that are really important to
your life, like 'characteristics of DP`, `alias paradox`, `what STM
talks about when he says I was not clear with

> You've described [2] using a lovely concrete example. However, [1]
> is sorely lacking in examples. What is this "organizing
> information"? Or "providing solutions"? That could be anything from
> "it's hot today" all the way up to "e = mc^2". Contrast that to PG's
> [business plan](http://www.paulgraham.com/vwplan.html) for his
> startup in 1995:

also Life goals, what I should be focussed on and why and things like
that

also maybe some of my presentations?

Your CV?

Cover letter?

Your profile?

Maybe something from the dynamics course, would be a fun addition to
add here, especially the part of the virtual work. but maybe it is a
problem for getting written.

Or someother technical work

Critical thinking .org is rife with 0 examples about how to go about
things.




## time needed

~~60 more will take 3 hrs~~

3 hrs for reading and editing

**4 hrs for making 50 more phrases?**


4-5 hrs of actual work time left... 

1 hr 50

to focus on , presentation, ">" P's and E's, spelling, ---?


