---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "What is DP?"
date:    22-04-2019 
categories: posts
tags: DP, feedback, examples
permalink: /:title.html
published: True
---

## Introduction

A [summary of the book](/deliberate-practice.html) "Talent is Overrated" was written in
September 2019. The crux of the book is:

> There is path that exists, that runs between your current abilities
> to that of the greats. It is hard, extremely long and demanding. Not
> many will follow it all the way till the end. But if you do…

> > But if you make yourself more than just a man, if you devote
> > yourself to an ideal, and if they (1st world) can’t stop you, then
> > you become something else entirely… Which is … Legend Mr Wayne!

Laszlo Polgar, a Hungarian Educational Psycologist, married a woman
with the understanding that he would have children with her and on
whom he would conduct an experiment. The experiment being, to test his
claim that "Talent is not born, it is nurtured". He had 3 children, he
chose chess as the space where he was going to train his children as
it had a lot of material on it, and it was "relatively easy to
measure" (by some accounts).

All 3 of his daughters were home-schooled. They practiced "hours and
hours" of it everyday. At the age of 17, Susan was the first woman to
qualify for what was called the Men's World Championship. All three at
ages 19,14 and 12 respectively, competed in a Women's Olympiad and
scored Hungary's first-ever victory against the Soviets, becoming
national heroes.

Under the guidance of an STM I later went on to use the [Benjamin
Franklin Method](/Deliberate-Practice-case-study.html) and did a couple of practice sessions. With this
post we discuss further, how to do DP, and also investigate what I have
been doing this past year.

## Characteristics of DP

- **Designed** specifically to improve performance

    > Tiger Woods has been seen to drop golf balls into a sand trap
    > and step on them, then practice shots from that near- impossible
    > lie.

- It can be **repeated** a lot.

    > Ted Williams, baseball's greatest hitter, would practice hit-
    > ting until his hands bled.

- **Feedback** on results is continuously available

    When practicing shooting the ball from the free-throw line, we can
	measure how many balls went in, how many balls went in without
	touching the ring, how many balls hit the right side of the ring,
	etc... So constantly we are able to look at performance, for
	example, percentage of shots made without touching the ring etc...	
	
- It is highly demanding **mentally**

	
- It isn't much **fun**

    > There's nothing enjoyable about running to the point of
    > exhaustion or lifting weights to the point of muscle
    > failure. But these were centrally important activities.

    On the days when I do Biceps, I need to do 9 supersets of 3
    exercises each. Somehow each superset has something related to the
    Bicep (either a dumbell or barbell curl). I am trying to lift the
    max possible weights with each set. By the end of the first
    superset, when I am at the 5th rep of curling a 10kg dumbel, I
    want to tap out, and having to go 8 more supersets is just so
    painful mentally. I keep looking at how far the end is constantly
    to motivate myself to just finish it at max intensity.
	
    > A few moments with a calculator tell us that by an extremely
    > conservative estimate, Arakawa's road to the gold medal
    > involved at least twenty thousand derriere impacts on an
    > unforgiving surface.
	
*I realize I have not used one running example*

## Measuring and improving performance

Say there is a quiz with 10 different types of questions such as `2x2`,
`2x79`, `25x79` etc... to be made without using paper. If you get
3/10 correct in the exam then you had 3 questions right out of 10. To
improve your score it appears that you need to work on where you have
failed. `2x2` aka single digit multiplication I can do at the back of
my head without paper. It will take some time but I should still be
able to manage single digit multiplied by 2 digits, but further than
that, it seems like it will take more time and I might make mistakes
as well.

If you didn't score well or took "way too much time" on 2 digit
multiplication or 3 digit multiplication, then it appears that that is
what I need to be working on. Working on single digit multiplication
doens't seem to improve my score, at best, it will keep my score where
it is. Where as working on double digits and triple digit
multiplication seems to give the possibility to improve score.

So the next time I do the test again, say I score 6/10. In that case
it appears that I have improved my performance and that there is still
scope to improve in the placed where I failed.

Tiger Woods is known to work on his failures. Golfers typically face a
ball buried in sand only 2 or 3 times a season say 500 balls hit. Yet,
Tiger Woods is known to step on the ball in the sand and practice
these shots (near impossible lie).

> A study of figure skaters found that sub-elite skaters spent lots of
> time working on the jumps they could already do, while skaters at
> the highest levels spent more time on the jumps they couldn't do,
> the kind that ultimately win Olympic medals and that involve lots of
> falling down before they're mastered.

Shizuka Arakawa's road to the gold medal involved falling her ass on
ice 20000 times.

## What I am doing currently

Recently, I have been working on DP of this thing called "concrete
thinking". For this the goal is to identify claims and come up with
examples for those claims.  For example:

**Claim:** People in Venezuela are desperate for food

**Example:**[This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eYxL-n5xSRI) shows examples of how people are rummaging through
garbage for food.

I usually resort to "feelings" to tell me what is correct and what is
not. And then I submit 100 odd claims to an STM and then he gives
feedback on some of them which are wrong.

I look at the feedback for a few hours and then start writing and
testing another 200 claims. 

To keep the challenge level high I look at "claims/phrases per hour"
clocked and force myself to meet something like "10 phrases per
hour". But it was very hard to meet it, as there was large variances
in the difficulty of text from one type of text to the other. For
example, if I worked on 80khours article I usually gave examples for 5
phrases an hour. With articles I had written in my blog, it was easy
to meet 10 claims per hr. And even within the 80khours article, there
was variances with me completing 2 to 7 claims every hr.

Am I improving? Frankly, I don't know if I am improving. 

Am I meeting the DP criteria? It appears that it is designed to
improve the ability to check a claim against atleast one example. It
is repeated a lot (I have done 5-8 exercises amounting to about 200
hrs).

For feedback, initially I used the BF method where I first make some
notes and later rewrite a piece of text based on the notes. Then the
work is compared across dimensions and we understand across how many
dimensions we have failed as seen [here](/DP-CT-examples.html). 

But on the last 5 exercises, the BF method was not used, instead the
claims were identified and it was attempted to give examples for these
claims. The feedback I got, appears to be primarily from my own
"feelings" or "lack of confusion" of something. For example, there was
[this document](/DP-8-questions.html) from my work, which I didn't understand, which I
took apart using the above process, leading to me being able to have a
conversation "on my boss's level" about the document. There were many
mistakes and with practice session, I forgot or have no recollection
of my previous mistakes. Just one or two here I remembered like, "when
I give an example, a lay person must be able to say if I have answered
the claim". And this last time STM pointed out that somethings had
been seen in the past.

To sum up, I get feedback, but I seem to be doing very little with it.

For mentally challenging, I am not sure I understand what it means or
how to measure. But working on 6 hrs of DP per day, took me >8 hrs. It
was quite a challenge to sustain concentration for 6 hrs a day. 

Sustaining an hr to 1.5 hrs of work without a break seems to be a
quite a feat, yet there are times when I have done 2 hrs straight or
even 2.5 hrs without taking a break, especially when on deadlines.

For Fun, hell yeah, there are 1000 other things I'd rather be doing
like sleeping watching TV, going to the gym or hanging out with
friends.

## What is the plan now

So far, we have seen that there are certain characteristics of DP, but
I have been failing on meeting it. ex: feedback, and designing to
improve perfromance (!!).

So we need to focus on our mistakes, aka, getting feedback. Not random
terms but terms we actually care about. Not claims/hr but actual
ends. Claims/hr seems to push me to make sure I am being
challenged. Probably I still need to use it to track some progress,
but the important thing that gives result of performance shall be "the
scorecard". 

Second is to work on the places where we fail. Working on `2x2`
doesn't seem to help anything other than keep the performance
level. Whereas working on `34x79`, seems to be allowing to tackle new
scenarios which will improve the above defined performance.

So in my case, I should be identifying different scenarios where I fail.


Recently it was pointed out to me where all I fail, aka given if then,
no most. and in different scenarios such as 80k, my own personal
talking.


Where I fail is where I should be working and where I don't fail, I
should atleast keep it at some standard. aka, it looks like I should
practice golf balls burried below the sand rahter than...

Dhoni should practice playing in death overs to score xxx runs rather
than 

and focus on improving the score aka not practice 2x2 for
example. Anything that lets the score down practice that!

Practice to imrpove performance

## Why is it going to work


Why hypothetical examples are bad?
