
facebook


causaility statistics brain... stat math think

right align dates...

helped guide optimal number of measurements, increased accuracy and
time took to 

statistical rigour and CI constraints... trials required.. without any
loss in accuracy.

Techniques ABC... 

Predict probability of failure (what event?)

1. problem and impact

2. how did you solve it?

- identified as subject matter expert for issues debugging and
  troubleshooting clients in key european markets.
  
---
cro
yossuwe
-funtional collab efforts... key contributor to end to end
process ideation to finished product-go-live

we

another engineering project... ??

failure predictions (repair rat)e

-- 10-1000

- impact problem statement and then how you did it.

the newly trained model had a prediction acc in the testing dataset.


## Day 2: 

Architected a  math model to predict the eventual position of a
critical module that circumvented the need for 6-month
redesign effort with no loss in machine min. loss in machine
productivity

Model predicted the eventual position of the mathematical module

### 

Developed a Statistical model that predicts the deviaiton from noimal for machine
critical modules

uncertainty in position of a
critical module after n

The information from the model helped circumvent design overhaul
which would ehva espaneed six months with negligible


Developed a classification mo... allowed threshold of not
other

### innoovation

Proposed an innovative solution by leveraging existing frameworks, platforms and space, to
to optimize the design plan for the new product, in the proces saved
no percievable loss in fucntion, userexperience better in
efficieny 300 human hours...

###
 
I have been recognized as Subject matter expert for issues in
debugging and troubleshooting id  for clients in Europe. key
stakeholders


####

Built   a model that enabled part failure estimatations by 10x @ similar
computational effort.

improved capability to estimate.. ones ability foresee failure of
part,,, 10x more accuracy... this was achieved no increaments to
computerational effort.

as part of this research endevour additional features contributed to functionality  added to software

### Make first page until work **Example-sub**: 

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: sub; Yes; pre; Yes; ecm; Yes;

**Time**:...

## 

DA --> product managent.... 50 50 time..c


### questions
1. [x] content check
2. [ ] what parts to highlight? 
3. [x] To keep or not to keep things in brackets?
4. [x] top line
5. [x] proof read
   fullstops, commas, check links
6. time on the left?
7. [x] line positioning of different thigns? profile at one point projects
   at toer
8. [x] justification
9. [x] fix dates
10. [x] fix pages
11. [x] check with rajeshs comments
12. [x] spell check
13. [x] proof read it one last time
14. [ ] send to one company

### Most important

1. internship in page 1.
2. research sentences end cleanly.
3. no justified spaces
