---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "wc-mode"
date:    02-01-2020 
categories: notes
tags: DP, feedback, examples
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---

## What I want

- toggleable WCmode
- show on modeline
- show how many typed after switched on
- ability to reset
- SHOULD NOT BE SLOW AT ALL

## wc-mode

https://github.com/bnbeckwith/wc-mode

^^ is wc-mode which slows down and is straight up irritating to use
beyond 6k words. There is an improvement of this, but it still sucks.

maybe a simple wrapper around it that identifies when to compute this
might be interesting.

### Emacs wiki on wcmode

https://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/wcMode



### Looking online for help



# word dump

## Log

Day 1: 

This is so hard... Why am I having to fight sleep so much! Maybe it is
not a good idea to work in this way, of writing all the claims. 

I slept for 45 mins while starting to work. Possible hypothesis: It
was too hard. I didn't know where to start? It was too big, I needed
to do so much boring stuff before I got to the interesting
stuff. etc...

1.5 hrs in total later, I seem to be ok. This is an important topic.

## Statistics


## Introduction

What is it that I would like in life? What do I want to do? What
should I be doing in the next 3 months and next 6 months.

Figuring out what I need to do?

Boy this gonna be hard!

Something that would be interesting to measure is how many claims I
had made before knowing this techinique and I had already got it
right? and what I didn't get right earlier.


## Best ways to work: ETG, DW etc.,

#### **Claims**: Only a small proportion of people should earn to give long
term (80khours)

#### **Claims**: Working on advocacy is not for me

#### **Claims**: I should build flexible CC

#### **Claims**: The most in-demand roles are researchers and managers (80khours)

#### **Claims**: Getting a job in policy is hard

#### **Claims**: Getting a job in Economics is hard

#### **Claims**: Getting a job in DS is easy

#### **Claims**: We should consider Founding effective non-profits

#### **Claims**: Looking at personal fit x impact is not enough, we need to
look at every possibility and check the fit x impact

## me

I have always  thought DS is better than DE. There are so many
questions I have. I don't know which career to take? I don't know if
the calculations I have done hold any merit. Why AI is important?
	
It is super unclear what I have to do in life. What I can do in
life. I have been thinking that I will work for a few years in DS and
then join an EAO like 80000 hours.

#### **Claims**: DS is the best thing to do for me

#### **Claims**: I have to do it in California

#### **Claims**: I need to go to California

#### **Claims**: I should donate to AI?

#### **Claims**: I am not capable of working in AI.

#### **Claims**: The best impact I will have for sure is by working with an
EAO like GiveWell or 80khours.

#### **Claims**: Doing DS builds sufficient "critical thinking skills" that
I am eligible to work in GiveWell.




#### **Claims**: It is better to do DS than an MBA.

I don't know why I don't have confidence in my calculations? I spent
so much time, it is atleast indicative of the type of job I need to choose.



## Finding the right career

#### **Claims**: To find the right career you make a list, compare them
based on CC, personal fir job satisfaction and impact. Write out your
key uncertainties. This is the best way to choose this?



#### **Claims**: It is possible to get a job with 80khours in 4 years time.


> flexible – useful in many different types of jobs, and likely to
> remain useful in the future. For instance, learning marketing or
> management is flexible because almost all organizations need these
> skills;


## Looking at the past

In "this" article I have already done a detailed "estimation" of what
is the best career. 

So another attempt could be to look at the analysis that I made and
find out claims that need evidence and see if they have evidence.

Boy, you are not going to find all the answers you need. But that is
ok. You are going to try and challenge claims like once I do DS in
california, I will have the skills to do DW. I can challenge other
claims about sticking to DE ETG or doing an executive MBA which was not
at all considered.

Maybe in some cases I made a mistake of looking at a different
baseline of someone who did DS. Body is one of my top sources why I
think working as a DS employee might be interesting for me, as he
already "makes" 200k he says.

If I should ultimately get into DW then why not do it already?

Right I see some directions.

I shall write out my own claims and 


The starting is always hard. Also mental masturbation is bad.


## Long term planning vs short term planning (almost done)

**Entry questions**: 

What should you plan for? Does it make sense to look at "long-term
planning". How are we supposed to do this "long-term planning"? What
is this long-term planning?

So currently I was looking for impact over my whole career assuming I
would be in say EAOs. I can't plan my career at everystep. I don't
know what I would do after 2 years. I guess that is what 80khours is
trying to say. Try to think about the next 5 years and see where you
end up. Opportunities will come, interests will change, jobs will
change?, so there is not too much point focussing on it other than
maybe just keeping the path in mind. Path here could mean a path like
AI policy etc... 

Except in medicine or academia things are different where you can't really
change after a point (lets agree with this). Maybe in the beginning.

Now what are the claims here?

---

#### **Claims**: Values personality and preferences change in a 10 year
period.

People underestimate how much they will change in the future.

**Example**: [Quiodbach et al](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8OdBVMpAjJHc3cza2pNcklhOHc/view). measured the "personality (e.g.,
extrovertedness), values (e.g., hedonism, success, security) and
preferences (likes and dislikes)" of more than 19000 people. For
example they looked at the reported values of people with age of 38
and compared them to the predicted values of people with age 28 and
found a 40% difference in personality, 80% difference in values and
50% difference in preferences.

**Definition**: checks out.

**Checklist**: yes; true;

---
 
#### **Claims**: People change their paths dramatically after bachelors and
even their first job, even after masters and even at the age of 31.

It is hard to predict what you are going to be doing in the next 10
years (as a lot of shit changes, you know more about your preferences
or better ways to live or make money and enjoy a fulfilling career)

Planning for the shortterm 2-5 years seem to be more practical than
10-20years. ???

Any plans you make now are likely to get completely overturned in the
medium term. 

The decisions you make at 18 or even 22 do not last long and we see a
change in preferences.

**Example**: 

Cousin, moved from a mechanical designing job into marketing at the
age of 28 after 3 years of working as a mechanical designer. There is
no looking back after this.

Another cousin started in a network management job after Computer
Science bachelor's. He moved after 2-3 years into insurance. 

Another cousin completed his masters in US in Biotech and worked for 2
years. Moved to India took up a marketing internship and followed it
up in Canada, at the age of 28. He's been working there for 5 months.

Brother is an antenna designer in US for 5 years after his
masters. Currently fed up with opportunities in this field he is
trying to move to a management position with the help of an MBA.

Husband of aunt, worked in electrical engineering for 1-2 years after
BITS bachelor's and then moved to sales/marketing for the rest of his
life.

i.e., these people just got opportunities or found that their career
was not the best direction for long term money making and switched.

Friend in Mechanical Engineering moved straight to a Data Science
job after bachelor's and still is sticking to it till this date in
Apple.

Friend living in Japan and doing project management role despite a
Btech and Mtech from IIT Madras.

After performing a PhD in Topology Optimization, a colleague is
working in machine design Architecture for Electron beam
inspection. Not too dramatic but is completely unrelated to topology
optimization but is within the boundaries of mechanical engineering.

My friend after performing his masters in the US, started a customer
support job for photon beam inspection (not technical such as
designing or architecting). Just prior to that he was working on
robots.

[Milan Griffes](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/), started at GiveWell, then moved on to Head of Risk
at Wave after 2 years. He moved on feeling that GiveWell was not the
place for him. He says he made a lot of contacts and was part of the
EA community as a result of working at GiveWell.

[Niel Bowerman](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/member-stories/niel-bowerman/) who went from wanting to be a Climate Science
advisor to founding and administrating CEA, then working at FHI to
raise funds and in admin position as assistant director and then
ending up at 80khours as an AI policy specialist ([all in a span of 10
years](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nielbowerman/)).

She started as an intern at the Center for Applied Rationality and
then got "several offers", and worked as[ COO followed by CEO at
CEA](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tarajmacaulay/?originalSubdomain=uk).

[Ben Clifford](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ben-clifford-a48ab24a/?originalSubdomain=uk) started as an intern at CEA after BA in Philosophy in
Warwick. And somehow found his place as a director in Giving What We
Can. Then became a software developer for a few months and [really made
a difference at Founders Pledge](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/working-at-effective-altruist-organisations/#what-do-we-mean-by-working-at-effective-altruist-organisations) and is now a Founder and CEO.

**Definition**: This seems to show that people do not know in advance
what field they are going to work in 10 years (engineering vs
management or research or other). People doing history and then moving
into philosophy etc... Even at the age of 32 my brother is trying to
move from engineering

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
### Summary

So detailed planning for 5-10 years seems useless as we are most
probably not going to go with it anyway as our preferences changes and
there are quite some examples where people completely changed their
tracks. So now the question is about planning for the next few
years. 

**Claims**: I don't think we should just look at the next 5 years only
and see which career maximizes the impact in the 5 years.

Looking at only the short term is a bad idea.

**Example**: Let's compare a career with my current job and a career
with a startup, you probably are going to be earning peanuts at a
startup. For the first years of setting up a start up, it's probably
going to be your own time so 0 cash inflow. My current job already
pays me 60k€. 

Based on this if I decide that I am going to stick to my job, I might
loose on the opportunity of making millions at a much later date.

**Definition**: checks out. I somehow need to look at the big picture
too, but not in "as much detail"

**Checklist**: yes; true; 

I am not sure the suggestion then is to just plan completely based on
the next 5 years. For example, that could look like me deciding
between DS and DW based on the possible impact over the next 5 years
alone, without any regard to me working for 25 to 35 years after that.

And 80khours suggests...

> The best way to take account of the long-term is to focus on taking
> a step that will improve your career capital and help you learn
> more. That way, you’ll put yourself in a generally better position,
> allowing you to choose better options in the future. --- [80khours](https://80000hours.org/articles/stop-worrying-so-much-about-the-long-term/)

I can't predict my future. Now I am thinking I will start as a
researcher. So did Neil bowerman. But you gain more knowledge and you
see different opportunities when you are in the current job and you
move like neil bowerman to something better. Neil could not have
predicted he was goign to be an AI policy wait for it expert. It's not
just neil it's also a Ben Clifford and Milan Griffes and Tar Mac
Aulay.

So I think the message is plan for 2-5 years what you could best put
your self in. like a path. For example, should I stay or do DS instead
or move to an EAO and take it from there? This is the burning question.

What about when am 28 and I still can't predict at 38? should I
atleast fix path? or how should and what should I focus on?

It turns out that either your options don't turn out to be
the best or you come across much better opportunities so people try to move

80khours advices to look at the next 5 years with a focus on 20 years!
WTF does that even mean?

I mean you can survive for the rest of your life in the same field but
people who want "more" money power fame need to branch out.

and the examples of all people from 80khours show that thinks will
change dramatically atleast in the near future.

So many things changes, the future is unpredictable uncertain etc...



I don't know what it means to work on the short term (impact wise?) or
gaining skills? or how to look at options keeping in mind the fucking
balance between planning short term and fucking long term.

> For instance, if you’re about to graduate, ask yourself “what job
> should I take after I graduate?” rather than “what should I do with
> my life?”

## DW vs ETG (trading and IB) (done I think)

#### **Claims**: DW produces very high impact as compared to ETG anyday.

**Example**: Milan Griffes (x-GiveWell Employee) estimates his
contribution for the years 2014 to 2016 to be [97k](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/)<span>$</span>
per year, working @ GiveWell. Cofounder level hires contribute even
more, in the order of 485k<span>$</span> based on same link. Let's
arbitrarily assume the average contribution is
`(97+485)/2=288`k<span>$</span>.

[Another estimation](https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#ea-leaders-are-willing-to-sacrifice-a-lot-of-extra-donations-to-hold-on-to-their-most-recent-hires) is based on median estimates for recent hires
based on asking the organizations how much donations would the new
hires be compensated by over a 3 year period. 0.25m<span>$</span> for
junior-hires and 1.0m<span>$</span>, for senior hires. This comes out
to 88k<span>$</span> and 333k<span>$</span>. This arbitrarily becomes,
`(88+388)/2=238`k<span>$</span> average contribution per year. So I
would arbitrarily say it ranges from 238k<span>$</span> to
288k<span>$</span> per year.

Working as a hedgefund trader results in [average earnings of 400 to
900k](https://80000hours.org/2017/05/how-much-do-hedge-fund-traders-earn/)<span>$</span> "factoring in some probability". We arbitrarily
take the mean of this, i.e., 650k<span>$</span>. From [here](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/05/opinion/sunday/nicholas-kristof-the-trader-who-donates-half-his-pay.html), we
know that this trader is donating 50% of his income throughout his
life. So average donation is expected to be 325k<span>$</span>.

**Definition**: It is hard to say what does better than what as there
are a lot of assumptions here. Mainly I don't look at maximum earned
as I do not think that is going to be the case with me.  Taking
something like median or average estimate feels like it might reflect
me better than 99percentile level salaries. Atleast per this
comparison, they seem to have "comparable impacts" on average per
year.

**Checklist**: yes; false;

---

### Summary

At this point it seems like both are fine. So we look further on
personal fit.

## Can I do trading and IB (almost)?

#### **Claims**: It is hard to become MD in IB (investment bank)

**Example**: My friend works in an IB in New York. There are 25
analysts, 25 associates, 5 VPs and 2 EDs and 4MDs. He is currently an
Analyst. If half of them leave and if half stay for the fight of 5
VPs, there seems a <50% chance to get in. In addition positions need
to be available for people to climb the pyramid. A VP stays for 5-6
years whereas an associate only for 3-4 years. 

Along side that is the long hours that IB demands ([80-100 hrs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MbMh6KRLz9U))
per week, i.e., 11.5 hrs every single day including weekends. It gets
better as you climb the pyramid with (60-80 hrs).

As an associate within 6 months of working you fairly understand what
the job is about and it becomes monotonous.

**Definition**: The long hours, the lack of time to focus on health,
the monotony of work, the poor chances for growth, are all
discouraging.

**Checklist**: yes; true;

---

#### **Claims**: You can't even do cardio (atleast whilst you are still an
associate) in an investment bank.

**Example**: "Really depends on the group and what hours you have. I'm
a planner, but I'd always make gym plans the day of (or hour of),
since you never know what's going to pop up."

"I used to be at a large Middle Market bank working in a debt group and
had relatively chill hours (9:30am - 11pm most days). With those
hours, I was able to work out in the morning before work or around
dinner time (6pm/7pm) and it was perfect."

Now I'm at a top BB working in M&A and I have 0 time to myself (10am -
4am most days and occasional all nighters). I always aim to work out
before work at 8am but when you're running on 4 hours of sleep, an
extra hour of sleep goes a lot further than an hour of working out. I
try to just fit in shitty 30 minute 1-muscle workouts whenever I can,
and sometimes its mid day at like 3pm. It really sucks and I'm still
trying to find the ideal time to work out... but my body is definitely
a shadow of its former self. It's also extremely easy to indulge in
comfort food when you're constantly stressed out. Sometimes I even
recommend it since your mind releases endorphins when you eat that
shit, and it helps fuel you on the desk. But, it's all up to you what
you decide to do. Nothing anyone says here can really prepare you
until you're actually in the moment... it's like "Everyone has a plan
til they get punched in the face"..."---[wallstreetoasis](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/forums/investment-banking-bad-for-your-health)

"I feel you. I work 8:30 - 02:00 most days, and no time for gym during
workhours (at least not for the last 8 months). Find it so
disheartening to lose all my gym progress, as I used to be a gym rat
and in great shape."---[wallstreetoasis](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/forums/investment-banking-bad-for-your-health)

"Eating as clean as possible through seamless, and drinking water
throughout the day, definitely help me get up in the morning with
energy to workout (running on max 5 hours
sleep)"---[wallstreetoasis](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/forums/investment-banking-bad-for-your-health)

"I gained like 30-40 pounds while working in investment banking (from
eating out for every meal, drinking everday after I left the office,
and generally being miserable). It's really hard to eat healthy when
you haven't slept well in days and the only thing you look forward to
in life is a few beers and a burger at the end of the day. I had a gym
membership but hardly ever went. I have since dropped all that weight
after leaving investment banking.

During my exit interview I said "I just want a job where I get home
early enough to cook and go to the gym everyday""
---[wallstreetoasis](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/forums/investment-banking-bad-for-your-health)

**Definition**: Long working hours, 5-6 hrs sleep, stress of work seem
to be making it difficult for these associate, analyst-type workers to
hit the gym. This is definitely scary. This seems to be during the 5-7
years of being an analyst and associate. Yikes! count me out!

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
---

#### **Claims**: Investment banking pays similar to trading

**Example**: 

Working at an Invest Bank one can get the following salaries: 

|                  | Years | <span>$</span> per year |
|------------------|-------|-------------------------|
| "Good" Analyst   | 2-3   | 150k                    |
| "Good" Associate | 3-4   | 225-250k                |
| "Good" VP/ED     | 5-6   | 500-600k                |
| "MD"             | 10-12 | $1m and upwards         |

This amounts to an average salary of 650k<span>$</span> not taking
into account any probability of advancing and not taking into account
potential bonuses at MD level.

We expect an average salary of [650k in trading of Hedge-funds](https://80000hours.org/2017/05/how-much-do-hedge-fund-traders-earn/),
taking into account "some probability of advancing".

**Definition**: It seems that trading pays better as it takes into
account some probabilities (such as 10-20% chance of making it to
junior hire and a "few" percent for making it to the top role).

**Checklist**: yes; false;
 
---

#### **Claims**: IBer's work for 25 years max (career length)


#### **Claims**: Traders work for 25 years max

#### **Claims**: All ["TOP"](https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#who-was-sampled) EAO's can be expected to have a similar impact to
[97k](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/)<span>$</span> as estimated by Milan Griffes.

**Example**: When "top" EAO's were surveyed the following is the
financial compensation organizations would like to receive today, to
make their recent hire's contribution non-existent.

| Junior hire     | 2018 `$`/3 year | Divide by 3 `$` |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| 10th percentile | 60k             | 20k             |
| Average         | 1050k           | 350k            |
| Median          | 450k            | 150k            |
| 90th percentile | 3210k           | 1070k           |


**Definition**:  Seems to vary quite a bit from 20k all the way to
1070k. 

**Checklist**: yes; false;
 
---

#### **Claims**: Working in a trading firm causes high stress

**Example**: 

"Haha, the return doesn't even have to be negative for my boss to
rage. I've been chewed out for my stock not going up
ENOUGH. Typically, though, if a stock is down ~10% I'll start feeling
some real heat (less heat if the whole market is crashing).

I have recommended plenty of losers. It really sucks sometimes and you
just have to go in there, own up to your mistake, and provide a
rational argument for what needs to be done going forward. I remember
owning PCLN into a print where it was down ~20%. Probably one of the
more stressful days of my career... I ended up talking the PM through
the earnings, what went wrong, and what I thought we should do. We
ended up adding to the position and made money in the long run. It's
always a judgement call... do you take on more capital and reputation
risk and defend your stance or fold your hand? Keep in mind that if
you fold and the stock goes up, you will be yelled at yet again. If
you don't fold and it keeps going down, you will continue to hurt your
reputation and could be risking at your job at a certain point. In the
end it comes down to how much you trust your thesis."---[wso](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/blog/im-a-hedge-fund-analyst-ask-me-anything)

"At the hedge fund it was very stressful for the first year because I
didn't feel like I was adding a lot of value. As a junior guy you can
be replaced very easily as there is an inexhaustible list of people
out there willing to do your job. Now that I know my industry pretty
well (energy) I'm less stressed at work."---[28 year old Hedge fund
analyst](https://www.reddit.com/r/tabled/comments/25cyvr/table_iama_hedge_fund_analyst_28m_ama/)

"I am 2 years out of college and just landed a job at a small hedge
fund (under 250MM). I work directly under the CIO and I trade futures
for him overnight as well as equities during the day. I love the work
itself, but the office and work environment is totally
dysfunctional. Insane amounts of stress, yelling, screaming, and
inefficient workflows make everything more difficult than it should
be. I also work 6am to 6pm and then I am on call overnight. Sometimes
I’m up all night trading futures and then I have to go straight back
into work."---[~25 year old](https://www.reddit.com/r/FinancialCareers/comments/cp4qmh/hedge_fund_trader_should_i_quit/). He is going to stay and work a few
more years before getting out.

**Definition**: It seems to be some serious stress and something you
don't have too much control over. But can I handle it though?

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
I am afraid that the more I get paid, the more stressful it is going
to be. There seems to be a "lot of uncertainty", and I think I will
collapse in stress. 


#### **Claims**: Banking has a different kind of stress than trading


**Example**: "Banking stress, to me, was more of that panicked feeling
after sending an e-mail and realizing you forgot to check something. I
dreaded typos because the work was tedious and the last thing I wanted
was an MD screaming at me about a bad comma placement, as if that had
a real impact on the deal. It was like "ugh, this job sucks". But I
never thought to myself "damn, I'm stupid, maybe I don't belong in
this business"." ---[wallstreetoasis talking about IB](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/forums/stress-pressure-at-hedge-funds)

"It's also 90+ hours of very mind numbing work. Imagine being thrown
some 40 slide powerpoint that an associate needs the font colors
changed at 11pm on a Friday."---[reddit talking about IB](https://www.reddit.com/r/FinancialCareers/comments/9wnixa/what_exactly_makes_investment_banking_so_brutal/)

"It’s not that you’re “working” 80-100 hours a week...it’s that they
expect you to be available to work 168. There is no going home,
vacation, etc and just turning work off... If I wasn’t staring at my
phone, checking my email, etc, I had anxiety that I’d missed
something."---[reddit talking about IB](https://www.reddit.com/r/FinancialCareers/comments/9wnixa/what_exactly_makes_investment_banking_so_brutal/)

"I did a bit of time in m&a, the work itself is nothing overly complex,
its more the tight deadlines and small teams. For instance, had to
turn around a 90 slide IM in two days between 2 people"---[reddit
talking about IB](https://www.reddit.com/r/FinancialCareers/comments/9wnixa/what_exactly_makes_investment_banking_so_brutal/)

"Haha, the return doesn't even have to be negative for my boss to
rage. I've been chewed out for my stock not going up
ENOUGH. Typically, though, if a stock is down ~10% I'll start feeling
some real heat (less heat if the whole market is crashing).---[wso on trading](https://www.wallstreetoasis.com/blog/im-a-hedge-fund-analyst-ask-me-anything)

**Definition**: checks out! 

**Checklist**: yes; true;

---

#### **Claims**: Trading eats the age off of you

**Example**: "I can’t tell you how many times I’ve met somebody,
thinking that they were 70, only to find out that they’re 50." ---
[efinancial careers](https://news.efinancialcareers.com/nl-en/3001896/hedge-fund-ageing)


**Definition**: checks out.

**Checklist**: yes; true
 
---

#### **Claims**: I can't handle stress like that of trading

**Example**:

During my tenure as a project associate in IIT, I happened to make
mistakes now and then. Mistakes with indices in code, leading to the
whole solution being wrong. Mistakes in the code with variables,
leading to the whole solution being wrong. Mistakes where I check
volume conflicts in one configuration and miss the other. Everytime I
had to go to my boss and own up to this mistake, it was the worst. He
would make me feel like shit I think. 

Once, my boss suggested me to do something in a way. I didn't quite
understand it, and I followed it. Later I realized that the submitted
design to the client is not going to work if they make it. I refused
to look or check the CAD model to see if I could do something about
it. Week after week, I was only anxious. I played chess to distract me
endlessly. I just waited 6 months until I had to leave the job due to
my masters. Unfortunately or fortunately, I had to transfer the info
to another colleague. So just before I left I went to the CAD model
and figured out an explanation for why it could work and that was
that. My worst days had finally come to an end. Stress like this where
there is consequence to my life on this level seems to eat me up. In
this case the consequence was that I could be fired and would not have
recommendation letters from my boss for my masters and would have to
explain to my parents that my I fucked up.

In my current job though, I don't have these things. They understand
that everybody makes mistakes and have rigorous review stages. All has
been well I think.

**Definition**: The stress where, I am fully responsible for
predictions and where my job is always on the line, and where I need
should not make typing errors, I am afraid I would not eat due to the
anxiety and either loose my health or my job.

**Checklist**: yes; true;

---



#### **Claims**: It is very hard to get into a trading firm

**Example**: 

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
	
---

### Summary
## Can I EAO? Working in EAO (Done).

**Entry**
Am I capable of joining Open Phil Project? or GiveWell or other institutions?

**SuperClaims**: It is much more easier to become Millan Griffes
(x-GiveWell employee refered to above) than become hedge fund owner.
am afraid.

I prefer that based on no long hours, not as much
stress but somehow "similar impact", no need of additional degree
(even history is fine), potential health issues that EAO would be a
better option..

#### **Claims**: Somehow working at EAO's is not too stressful, despite the
ridiculously similar outcome as compared to trading.

**Example**: We look at the reviews on Glassdoor.

"Pros --> Working with really great people, being given free rein to
tackle some of the world's toughest questions, flexible work hours,
and knowing that your work is high-impact.

Negatives --> Lots of solo work. I don't work best while staring at a
computer for eight hours a day: I need to be doing a job that is not
research-based. High expectations and difficult to excel."---[GiveWell Reviews](https://www.glassdoor.nl/Reviews/GiveWell-Reviews-E974290.htm?countryRedirect=true)

"Pros--> A lot of the work they are doing is really valuable and
impressive. Many of the employees are nice and interesting
people. Good workplace environment and work/life balance.

Negatives--> Most of the work is very individual and major projects were assigned
without much explicit explanation of goals and/or criteria for
success. Hierarchy and management roles at levels below Directors very
unclear and not well-done. They say they're very open to change and
new ideas but that was not my experience."---[GiveWell Reviews](https://www.glassdoor.nl/Reviews/GiveWell-Reviews-E974290.htm?countryRedirect=true)

*Contrast that to*--> "Haha, the return doesn't even have to be negative
for my boss to rage. I've been chewed out for my stock not going up
ENOUGH. Typically, though, if a stock is down ~10% I'll start feeling
some real heat (less heat if the whole market is crashing).

**Definition**: Checks out! I would go as far as saying they don't
appear to be as stressful as trading.


**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
---

#### **Claims**: I have the qualifications needed for an EAO NOW.

**Example**: 

Let's look at the qualifications of people at GiveWell who are
research analysts.

So I have a look at [Milan Griffes LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/milan-griffes/). Milan is
someone who worked in GiveWell from 2014 to 2016. Milan has a
Bachelors in History and Music from Michigan State University
(currently ranked 144). 

- GPA: 3.83/4.00, Major GPA: 4.00/4.00
- GRE Verbal: 170/170, GRE Quantitative: 161/170, GRE Writing: 6.0/6.0

He was rejected the first time at GiveWell and asked to apply for an
admin position and ended up getting an RA somehow.

He has his own blog. He has been writing since 2014. He talks about
variety of things from black mirror to [reflection of his time at
GiveWell](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/). The latter one is the only useful post I find in his
blog and is particularly well written. It doesn't seem focused, like
an STM's blog, where the focus is on self improvement.

[Isabel Arjmand](https://www.linkedin.com/in/isabelarjmand/), from Stanford with a perfect 4.0 score in
Bachelors also works as a research analyst in GiveWell. Has a couple
of awards to her name.

[Tom Adamczewski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thomasadamczewski/), is from Oxford with a publication and leading a
research group. He is also a research analyst in GiveWell.

In addition, GiveWell wants someone with Bachelors in economics,
statistics or mathematics, with exceptions made for "outstanding"
applicants. They want "Excellent communication skills, both written
and verbal". 

I have a GPA of 8.0/10.0 from TU Delft in Mechanical Engineering. GRE
verbal: 155/170. GRE Quant: 159/170. GRE Writing: didn't do. I keep
finding it difficult to communicate at work. Just recently, I was
trying to explain a tolerance train and when I was asked a question on
it about another tolerance train of a gap, I didn't know how to go
about it. In hind sight though, looking at "what is the one thing we
are interested in (example gap in X region)", and going from there
would be easier the next time to think live on a situation. But for
now I think my "critical thinking" is bad. I see my colleagues a few
years older than me, literally playing with fire. Sharp on everything,
don't need too much explanation and communicate really well.

**Definition**: At this moment I don't think I am GiveWell material
and that GiveWell would want to hire me NOW. GiveWell is one of the
["TOP" EAO's](https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#who-was-sampled).

**Checklist**: yes; true;

So, What type of skills and to what level does GiveWell need to employ
me? How do I get this information and can I do it?

**Actions**: Contact Milan, Contact GiveWell ask for advice on various
questions. Apply for an internship.

But everyskill is achievable. So in theory I think I can work in
GiveWell in X years as long as I beef up certain skills like
"analytical thinking", "using statistics to deliver arguments". If it
is something like marketing or social skills, then I don't know where
to begin but there should be a path from here to there which will get
me that job.

---

#### **Claims**: I can become employable in 1 years for EAO.

**Example**: *no-example* 

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: yes; neither;
*no-example*

I don't know anyone with a similar baseline to mine who have gotten
into EAO's.

So I have a look at [Milan Griffes LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/milan-griffes/). Milan is someone who
worked in GiveWell from 2014 to 2016. Milan has a Bachelors in History
and Music from Michigan State University (currently ranked 144).

- GPA: 3.83/4.00, Major GPA: 4.00/4.00
- GRE Verbal: 170/170, GRE Quantitative: 161/170, GRE Writing: 6.0/6.0

Milan has a Bachelor's in history, not anything quantitative about it
but seems to be really good in quants and writing (GRE scores) and
probably critical thinking (thinking in claims) and statistics.

So I would need "statistics knowledge", "writing skills" and "critical
thinking skills" for me to do this.

I can develop these skills "over time", but whether it is sufficient for
GiveWell within 1 year? I don't know. I have to ask them what is a
sufficient level right? how to check? right? without that I am flying
blind. There is no way for my to estimate this I guess.

**actions**: Try for internship, get into discussion with Givewell
about employability.

#### **Claims**: I am capable to work at EAO now and in 2 years ()

*no-example* 

#### **Claims**: It is easier to join an EAO than a trading firm.

**Example**:

"If you’re capable of finishing in the top third of your class in
mathematics at an Ivy League university, then you have a shot at
entering this path."---[80khours](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/trading-in-quantitative-hedge-funds/) 

When I looked at the first three people on linkein who work at Jane
Street, All I found was Harvard, MIT, Yale and[ one trader from UTA](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ccagrawal/) but
seems to have done 4 bachelors in 4 years (B.S and B.A). So looking at
people who did an MBA to get in seem to have an MBA from [The Wharton
School (ranked 1)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wharton_School_of_the_University_of_Pennsylvania).

Whereas for Givewell the people you see are of Oxford, Stanford and
more often than not, Swarthmore college, Evans school of public
Education, University of Michigan even with degrees in English,
history etc...

**Definition**: 

So it is quite fucking hard to get into a place where almost everyone
is from ivy league bachelors aka trading at a top firm. Where as in
GiveWell there are people from "all walks" of life. 

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
It doesn't matter, I just want to know how to get into an
EAO. Couldn't care less about trading. as I think it is too stressful
at the cost of health. Like If I am going to be taken to task if my
shares don't do well and with all the trading people complaining that
it is hard for them its a no for me.

#### **Claims**: Can I do Khan Academy (NOT RELEVANT)
#### **Claims**: I capable to work at Data Science EAO now and in 5
(not relevant I think)
years

Like how do you even go about these? apply and see if you get
rejected?

Look at other profiles see if they are similar and see if they got
into an EAO. OR check the profiles of DS EAOers and see how they do
it.

Regarding data science, TOM DICK and HARRY have gotten jobs in the
field after bootcamps. I am fairly positive I can handle DS better
than a BA psycology person (no examples though). So I should
theoritically be able to and also easily. Going to the US on the other
hand is the tough part.

### Summary
## Impact as a data scientist in DW and ETG (done)

Center for Disease Control, Google, Khan Academy, Bayes Impact and
DataKind are all organizations working with Data Science to do direct
work according to 80khours.

Although these seem to be backed by Y combinator, Bill and Melinda
Gates foundation, I am unsure about the impact. So I want to dig in a
bit, see and understand in numbers what is the impact of their
people.

Cause I want to know if DS for DW is even a thing.

#### **Claims**: DW in DS can do same impact as working in GiveWell or
other Top EAO's.

*no-example*;

It is hard to understand the impact of working at BayesImpact and
similar companies. For example, they claim that 89% of people who used
BOB seem to think the advice of BOB as useful. Now what do I do with
that. In another case they claim 35% reduction in fraud detection as a
result of their advice to Zidisha. My qualms with this is not only
about the translating the 35% into Human lives saved or equivalent
dollars. It is about them working with Zidisha which is accused of
[misleading public about its interest rate as 5% when it is 5 times
more](http://modernmicrocredit.blogspot.com/2014/04/4-ways-that-zidisha-yc-w14-is.html). It is about them not providing how they think 35% is
directly because of them. No papers or data on this. And lastly, their
[blog posts are hidden and seems to have no info on this 35%](https://www.bayesimpact.org/stories?name=defending-credit-for-the-worlds-poor-with-data-science). They
don't mention any details about their cost-effectiveness and GiveWell
doesn't write about them yet (it's been 5 years). The only thing they
have going for them is that they are supported by Bill and Melinda
Gates and Y-combinator took them in. I am afraid this is the best I
can say for now. I have an idea how to investigate potential impact by
making some calculations based on claimed impact they've had on
microfinancing to reduce fraudsters based on [this](https://www.bayesimpact.org/stories?name=defending-credit-for-the-worlds-poor-with-data-science) article.

80khours thinks, "To what extent can you make a difference by
furthering a high potential cause directly with your work? 2/5 for
Data Science". Whereas, compared to working at [EAO's](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/working-at-effective-altruist-organisations/#what-do-we-mean-by-working-at-effective-altruist-organisations) which have
[5/5](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/working-at-effective-altruist-organisations/). Now if I wanted to question this or test this, I have no
idea or example.

In conclusion, I have found 0 evidence that working in any Data
Science related stuff is useful to have high DW impact as can be
provided by the [Top EAO's](https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#who-was-sampled). Clearly I have neglected the possible
contribution from the Center for Disease control. Of course I don't
know their impact but I expect it to be "Huge" as they are directly
working on global health. But they require citizenship's to work, so I
don't look at it any further.

My best guess is it doesn't based on 80khours estimation of it.


What about ML? 

**Claims**: ML has high potential either as DW or as ETG similar to
that of DW in EAO's.

#### **Claims**: With DS it is possible to donate over 100k/year after 5
years?

**Claims**: It is possible to earn 200 k as a DS in FAANG in the
beginning years already.

**Example**: Looked at another guy who just started
DS. 100k<span>$</span> is the minimum and base salary +
30k<span>$</span> per year equity and 30k<span>$</span> initial
bonus. Total: 130k to 150k after bachelor's in CS and as a software
engineering now he is getting 270k<span>$</span> total compensation.

Friend works in Apple. Earns about 200k including compensation (from
3rd year of experience) in california. He went to an ivy-school and
had 2 years of DS experience already before joining the ivy-league.

Probably not my baseline. 

According to [glass door: 180k at facebook](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salary/Facebook-Data-Scientist-San-Francisco-Salaries-EJI_IE40772.0,8_KO9,23_IL.24,37_IM759.htm?experienceLevel=LESS_THAN_ONE) in the first year. 140k
base + 11k cash bonus + stock bonus 32k.

According to [glassdoor: 190k for Apple data scientist](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salary/Apple-Data-Scientist-San-Jose-Salaries-EJI_IE1138.0,5_KO6,20_IL.21,29_IM761.htm?experienceLevel=LESS_THAN_ONE) in the
first year. 150k + 10k cash bonus + stock bonus 30k. Wow.

Seems legit. 150k to 200k "easily" from the first year as data
scientist if you are fb and apple worthy.

**Definition**: I'll take it.

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
---
 
**Claims**: It is possible to donate 50% of your salary With a salary
less than 160k<span>$</span>.
 
**Example**: This couple donates 40% of their 250k together
salary. They also have a kid.

**Definition**: At this point I am not even sure this is important. As
Warrne buffet and bill gates have decided to donate 50% of their
wealth. and also 80khours keeps saying that it is not important to
donate but to work and lead. 

I think maybe this is not the most important thing to focus energy on.

**Checklist**: 
 
---

**Claims**: With DS it is possible to donate 100k per year. 

**Example**: Even with 40% donation we wont meet it. It is a
stretch. Maybe with 180k salary and donation of 40% we end up with
80khours maybe. 

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 
But in the initial years I think if I get such a job. I will save the
hell out of it. Keep them for rainy days. And then slowly increase the
donation from 10%. Or atleast figure out what expense I will have. It
is not important to give everything now. I can give later too.



## EAO followed by Data science (done)
#### links

I am afraid I am able to land on actual answers instead of be boggled
down by contradictory statements put out by 80khours 

> "We’ve asked leaders of effective non-profits whether it makes sense
> to start your career in the non-profit sector. They said you can
> usually advance faster in the corporate sector because you get
> better training, and that’s where they hire from." --- [80khours](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/career-capital/#mistake-2-not-building-flexible-career-capital-that-will-be-useful-in-the-future)

**Claims**: You usually advance faster in corporate sector

So what?


**Claims**: You get better training in corporate sector

**Claims**: EAO's hire from the corporate sector

**Claims**: 

impact money job opportunities (also vague), seniority, what EAOs look
for...

**Claims**: the successful people start outside first and then go into
EAO's.

Rob Mather, link on career capital,
https://80000hours.org/career-guide/career-capital/#mistake-2-not-building-flexible-career-capital-that-will-be-useful-in-the-future


GiveWell people where did they work, Co-founders of the greatest
organization ever.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/holden-karnofsky-75970b7/,
https://www.linkedin.com/in/elie-hassenfeld-92072a9/,


David Goldberg https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidjonathangoldberg/

other people working at Givewell as research analysts not so much. 

Center for EA and 80000 hours seems to have the same cofounders who
did philosophy

And then am back to thinking about doing an MBA. But doing an MBA? But
80khours suggests the following [here](https://80000hours.org/articles/alternatives-to-consulting/#some-potential-counterarguments):

"Work at a top non-profit or research institute in a top problem area,
such as Open Phil, CSET, GPI, or GiveWell."


And this whole starting outside is fucking unclear. What exactly is
the claim... Cause Bitch I ain't able to test this nigga! Does DS
outside count? what counts? maybe a MBA counts, nam saying. Look at
all EAO co-founders. I got to think on that level

Complete flip by 80khours here:
https://80000hours.org/articles/alternatives-to-consulting/#some-potential-counterarguments

I think this is enough to round this up.
#### **Claims**: Top people work elsewhere before coming to
EAO's

**Example**: 

Rob Mather is the founder of the most effective charity Against
Malaria Foundation. 

Both GiveWell co-founders have been in Finance for 3 years before
starting GiveWell.

David Goldberg of Founder's pledge from a Philosophy degree went into
marketing and Finance for a few years before coming starting
Founder's pledge.

Jason Matheny, the founder of CSET also was in Philosophy, got into
finance and after a few years is doing some "serious shit in
security".

However, the people who started Center for Effective Altruism and
80000hours have both been only in the field of Philosophy from
Oxford. Also Nick Bostrom who wrote the insanely technical book on AI
(Superintelligence) did a lot of AI philosophy and nueroscience and
teaching. No MBA No Finance and doesn't seem to have done other things
than be in academia.

Also, the people who joined GiveWell, the [most of the research
analysts](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicole-zok-239219115/) seem to not have done that even though in some cases
people are coming straight out of Harvard or MI.

Atleast there seems to be some distinction between a founder and
regular employees.

**Definition**: It looks like there are quite some TOP founders who
spent time "gaining skills" outside of the EAO environment before
starting at or starting an EAO. But at the same time we still see
Benjamin Todd of 80khours or analysts from GiveWell working straight
on the top problems without getting into finance.

**Checklist**: yes; false;

80khours seemed to suggest [here](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/career-capital/#mistake-2-not-building-flexible-career-capital-that-will-be-useful-in-the-future ), that people should work in
corporate before coming to EAO's.

> "We’ve asked leaders of effective non-profits whether it makes sense
> to start your career in the non-profit sector. They said you can
> usually advance faster in the corporate sector because you get
> better training, and that’s where they hire from." --- [80khours](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/career-capital/#mistake-2-not-building-flexible-career-capital-that-will-be-useful-in-the-future)

But since this post in 2015, they seem to have this view aka make the
claim that focusing on top EAO's is better than prestigious corporate
jobs. And of course I don't have an example for that?

"In the original career guide, we said that prestigious corporate jobs
are often better for career capital than typical non-profit jobs. We
still believe this. But, if you have the opportunity, it can be even
better to join a top organisation that’s working directly on one of
the most pressing problems (whether or not that organisation is a
non-profit) or get other career capital that’s more relevant."---
[Alternatives to MC](https://80000hours.org/articles/alternatives-to-consulting/#some-potential-counterarguments).

So it looks like people go straight to it as it appears that EAO's are
top impact things if you are able to get into it. So going to a DS to
get "skills" on corporate floor seems to be all irrelavant as tons of
people have gone into the EAO world without finance, let alone DS. I
have atleast seen no one who has done DS and gone into EAO. Of course
note the point that Datakind and bayesimapct were not considered
EAO's. and Center for disease and control is not within my power.
 
#### **Claims**: DS will make me employable at EAO

Not relevant anymore. Unsure. No examples.

#### **Claims**: I should not go to EAO first. I should first do DS
before EAO

Not sure why? Maybe Visa, money savings could be something to think
about.

#### **Claims**: Starting with DS helps to go into DW

No idea. No example.

Maybe you can join Datakind, Data bla bla but are they the most needed
talent constrained? "transferable"

#### **Claims**: It is possible to switch to EAO in 5 years after DS

cannot be answered. *no-example*;


#### example

https://www.linkedin.com/in/peterhurford8/

### Summary
## Which EAO is important (done)

So with this part I want to identify which EAO I need to go to and
start working in and in what capacity. For this I need to know where I
am going to best fit.

Will I get job in EAO? Will I get interview in EAO? Where can I best
contribute? what type of skills to found EAO's.

Which EAO is the best for me to work in as X? And if I can I get in is
not for now. 

Maybe I can start with reading what is crucially needed in EAO's and
then take it from there. I don't think I can determine it. I should
start somewhere and then you will find what you are best suited for
just like the others. In other words no one stays where they
started. Its hard to predict exact path more than 5years at a time.

So the claims would be things like:

#### **Claims**: EAO's would need most "generalist researchers", policy
experts and Management

**Example**: This link has the methodology of the survey of 55 people
from ["TOP" EAO's](https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#who-was-sampled) (37 people answered) and this is the
[presentation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ttywEor3J5Gpdzxb_Cb50ojeOJ91ITXq/view) summarizing the results of the survey. 

In this survey we see that (in decreasing order) Operations,
Management and Generalist Researchers, Policy experts, AI tech
expertise, entrepreneurial skills are the most needed type of people
in the next five years.

**Definition**: Check out.

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 


---

#### **Claims**: Working in Policy is going to be hard for a non US/UK
citizen

A research assistant job at the Center for Global development needs
some form of US work authorization (aka green card), which takes about
15-20 years from now for me, an Indian.

"Candidates must have and maintain valid US work authorization to be
considered for this position. CGD is not able to sponsor work
authorization for this role." --- [link](https://centerforglobaldevelopment.applytojob.com/apply/snz4OHEV0Z/Research-Assistant-Data-Governance-And-Economic-Development)

"The role will be based in London, and applicants should have and
maintain the right to live and work in the UK." --- [link](https://centerforglobaldevelopment.applytojob.com/apply/Kk9StgpJHe/Research-Assistant-Global-Health-London)


I think I should seek other examples or success stories of people from
EAO's like GiveWell or 80000hours helping in policy wihtout they're
background in US or UK:

"GiveWell has had many published conversations with research fellows at
CGDev and recommended grants be made to them." --- [link](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/think-tank-research/)


Ehmm... What does working in Policy even mean? Working in CGD which is
a think tank? because that's what 80khours seems to talk about. Ok
atleast this is vague as always.

But I don't think this will change my conclusion?

#### **Claims**: I am a good fit for "generalist researcher" out of the
rest.

**Example**: I have been working on a research projects during my
masters. I am currently working on understanding and identifying and
analyzing what I should be doing career wise. At work I have to
present often my findings against some important dimensions we are
interested in.

I have done zero work in operations and management in my career other
than organizing parties. 

Regarding policy my impression (atleast 80khours doesn't talk about
"other people") is that I need to be a citizen of US or UK, which in
the case of the US could take more than 20 years from now.

**Definition**: Experience wise I seem to have something in that direction.

**Checklist**: yes; true;
 
I think I have the highest chance of getting in as a researcher (based
on my past experience?). I don't have any management experience. All I
have lead is parties. I haven't done anything like Tara MacAulay. And
worst of all I don't know what to do to show that I am management
capable (an MBA perhaps?). Well maybe I can try and start a foundation
here. That would be some skills required?  But I still think thinking
fast and "critically" is a big no no for me???. I need time. So
working as a researcher can help me understand the logics and then
growing to a manager might help? or you learn in the job?

I have no idea how to prove I am better in this than management other
than that I have some "experience". Which is ok! It's something
atleast.

---

**Claims**: you will network once you are in the community which will
open up other jobs for you, where "~~you might be a better fit in~~"?

Milan Griffes, started off at GiveWell. He claims [here](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/), that
working at GiveWell, allowed him to understand that this is not eh
type of job he wanted and that it gave him the opportunity to meet
other people and landed a job as Head of Risk at Wave.

MG was not satisfied with his "personal growth" at GiveWell and claims
that he found different work due to his connections in the community.

"I was unfamiliar with the Effective Altruism (EA) community prior to
joining GiveWell. GiveWell provided an excellent platform for engaging
with this community. This had both social and professional benefits: I
now have many friends in the EA community, and when I was considering
leaving GiveWell, three of the opportunities I seriously considered
(including the offer I accepted) were enabled by my EA network. (I had
multiple rounds of interviews for all of these positions. If I had not
worked at GiveWell, and thus not had connections at these places, I
doubt I would have received callbacks from any of them.)"--- [Milan
Griffes](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/)

"In addition to wanting to be directly useful there, she thought this
would be a good chance to build her knowledge and network, and help
her find better high-impact job opportunities in the future. This
‘exploration’ worked out well for her."---[80khours about Tara Mac
Aulay](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/member-stories/tara/)

---

**Claims**: Many people who have started somewhere and moved to
completely different companies within 2 years once they started at an
EAO.

**Example**: 

[Milan Griffes](https://80000hours.org/2016/08/reflections-from-a-givewell-employee/), started at GiveWell, then moved on to Head of Risk
at Wave after 2 years. He moved on feeling that GiveWell was not the
place for him. He says he made a lot of contacts and was part of the
EA community as a result of working at GiveWell.

[Niel Bowerman](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/member-stories/niel-bowerman/) who went from wanting to be a Climate Science
advisor to founding and administrating CEA, then working at FHI to
raise funds and in admin position as assistant director and then
ending up at 80khours as an AI policy specialist ([all in a span of 10
years](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nielbowerman/)). His change happened after he came in contact with 80khours.

Tara MacAulay, started as an intern at the Center for Applied
Rationality and then got "several offers", and worked as [COO followed
by CEO at CEA](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tarajmacaulay/?originalSubdomain=uk). She started at CAR after getting in contact with
80khours.

[Ben Clifford](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ben-clifford-a48ab24a/?originalSubdomain=uk) started as an intern at CEA after BA in Philosophy in
Warwick. And somehow found his place as a director in Giving What We
Can. Then became a software developer for a few months and [really made
a difference at Founders Pledge](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/working-at-effective-altruist-organisations/#what-do-we-mean-by-working-at-effective-altruist-organisations) and is now a Founder and CEO.

are there counter examples?

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 

So few people don't seem to know ahead of time where they "should be
working" 2 years from point X. They don't seem to stay in that EAO for
long. Or few people make a mistake of joining company X despite their
"best efforts" to determine where they should work. Or they join
somewhere and test it to see where they should go next.

So Start somewhere and then you can find where you can best EAO and
best place for your skill set later. You can network which could help
you find what you are looking for.

You don't need to care about where you going because you are going to
shift your job in 2 years anyway

It is ok to start somewhere and even waste two years of your efforts I
think, considering that you have 38 years more to contribute. Figuring
out what you need to do doesn't seem easy. Nevertheless if you start
at an EAO, you can estimate your contribution and there is a mean
contribution based on a survey so the 2 years are not completely going
to waste, but of course could be used to make you better in the
future.

Seems like trying out is an option, aka a best guess jump.

No one has made a right decision for >5 years. Having said that it
seems foolish to think that you can know in advance where you can
be. Given that I want to move in the general direction of EAO's as
they are high impact careers.

Considering that right now I don't know what is the BEST I COULD
BE. It looks like trying out something and then working on becoming
better would be a decent strategy.  So I think starting soemwhere
might be good. Just like Milan Griffes I could start and see where I
would fit and what skills I would need instead of working in DS or
instead of doing consulting and learning "skills", instead of sitting
at home and trying to figure out where I would fit and what I could
potentially be doing.


- because no one knows where they are going to be...

- you can change

- you can network in the starting years

- It is important to start as I don't know of any other thing I could
  be doing. 
  
- I can write for as many days as you like


Showing up seems to be important. Trying out "something" seems to be
important. No one stays where they were for more than 2 years. They
are able to find other things they should work on and keep going
forward. I gues in the beginning Cliffard didn't know that he had to
found a particular kind of thing. I think showing up allows you a
better picture of the world and then you figure out what to do.
 
But why is an STM pandian not doing it yet? maybe he is waiting to hit
30?

I think I can get some internship within the TOP EAO's,
there are 15 of them I think. If I rigorously apply I should be able
to find something.

Only Action, I have no evidence other than testing it.

## Which field should I attack in EAO's

At this point it is very unclear which field I should choose. The
fields available are:

- AI safety
  - ML
  - Policy
  - Strategy
- Global health

	I think this is a clear no no according to the research made by
    80khours.
	
	
- Global priorities

	Not sure where this is going?


The sad part is, everything takes time and effort. Like if I wanted to
get into ML I am not sure I have more time to spend on it. I kinda
need to commit 100% and see where it takes me.

On the other hand I could look at "personal fit" aka, my chances of
success in either. This is not really hard to evaluate I guess. I have
a feeling of where I could fit. Assuming this is right, I am still not
sure

The question is where can I have the most impact in? That's the one I
need to be doing. The key factor or word is where can I I I have most
impact. Assuming everything produces impact X. How will my "success"
in it change shit? So if I pick up ML and spend two years and then 

I can ask open AI team lead if I will fit or what I can do to become
the master of my domain and tough it out. or I can email several
people asking them if I can? take an average and then move on. So
there is some scope to determine where and what to do.

Asking people is an option. 

Why am I unable to make a decision? 

### I am not sure where people need me? 

People need me in the following places: GR, policy or safety ML. 

There is a survey which says that GR ML policy people are all needed
"equally". It tells me to consider GR, ML, Policy, Strategy. Now I
have to figure which is the best place I can excel in... Good! and
then pick that to work on in full swing. Maybe rate it... 

The underlying assumption is that all will have the same impact. i.e.,
ML and GR will have same impact.

How to figure out which is the best place for me to work in? I.E.,
*which is the easiest to get*, What other metric could I be talking
about? BEst could mean... Impact x chance of success if I pursue and
this I judege by looking at skills required and taking a guess (or
asking the people what "one" would need to be working at your org). So
to begin with I would start with the actual job available. 



, which is the hardest to get? and the
options are: 

GR in GiveWell (Here I have some understanding of what the actual job is)
- GR in AI safety (attach actual job next to it) 

	Not sure if such a thing is exists even... Nor sure how much in
    abundance these types of jobs are.

ML in AI safety (attach actual job here)

GR in global priorities research (attach actual job here)

bla bla in AI policy (attach actual job here)

These seem to be the top I need to consider. Once I attach actual
jobs, I have a feeling of what type of skills are required. Maybe it
makes sense to listen to some lecture like that of ... or contact
people in jobs and axe them what you would need to do to become
them. That way I have a concrete set of things I guess to check and
test on. It's holiday season so hurry up. We see what we can do from
there. ok? How will I go from concrete examples to making a decition?

Again, actions are: attach job profiles, contact people in those jobs
to understand what you need to do to get to their position, just like
Daniel Ziegler did, by asking Dario Amodei to get some advice on the
skillset required.

Then I claim that I can make a decition on what makes sense for me?
Maybe I will see how much I have in common with it or something. I
have no idea.

### I am not sure if I can meet the demand

### I am not sure how to choose between the different paths

Policy is more and more discouraging. They keep talking about US and
Networking and going to conferences and doing shit in UK and getting
internships. I don't think I can... I don't see the means. In addition
I can't read those bone dry books on AI (like
superintelligence). Painful AF. So much of english, that most of the
time I don't know what he is trying to talk about.

GR I don't even know if it exists for AI safety.

Some existential risk or global prio is where I need to focus on. I
don't want to say all be well. But if 

0. List companies first in AI safety and GPR

- Open Philanthrophy project
- Future of Humanities Institute
- 

1. Let me look at the jobs in them (AI safety companies and their
team of members)

https://www.netherlandsandyou.nl/your-country-and-the-netherlands/india/travel-and-residence/legalising-your-documents

2. Reach out to members to know what they are trying to do?

3. Look at the lectures for knowledge on AI (instead of reading the
   shitty book perhaps?)

4. Is being a fucking experimenter worth it or should I aim for
   something higher..
   
   
   I.E., all AI jobs are no equal......... write to miland ask him
   what he thinks about what I should aim for.


Each path costs time and money and I don't want to waste months on
this. Each path requires specific set of skills which I need to
improve

## AI policy and strategy

less jobs (seems like)

highly competitive

Should I look for talent gaps? then?

How competitive?

Which institutes?

**Can I get a job?**

**How hard is it to get into AI strategy**

I would say they’re pretty competitive, and I think that’s a general
phenomenon in anything related to AI these days, whether on the policy
side or the technical side. I think that this is a growth area for
[00:24:30] sure. If one develops expertise in this topic and has
something to contribute, then I think there will ultimately be
opportunities available to you in the next few years.

Absolutely useless? Now I have the fear that if I start somewhere and
suck, where would I go? all the way back to NL and do what?

What I need to do?

example jobs ?

**Politics and policy**



**organizations?**


AI Strategy:

Deepmind, Open AI, Google Brain, Future of humanity institute, Future
of life institute, Center for the Study of Existential Risk, the
Leverhulme Center for the Future of Intelligence, the Tech Policy Lab
at the University of Washington, and various faculty programs. Various
academic programs in the US (as postdocs or faculty members in AI and
policy). Positions at tech companies  in broad area of tech policy.

I would recommend casting a fairly large net and working in adjacent
areas if you can’t immediately work in the exact right place.

then talk to people in the field about what sorts of opportunities are
on the horizon and try and work in adjacent fields.

"KNOW ABOUT TECH AND POLICY, it is interdisciplinary"

"Good fit for Someone who was really able to set their own direction and meet
people and potentially attract funding to do what they want to do,
someone who’s gonna create the opportunities that they want to go
into" 

Policy:

Congressional staffer, Brookings institute, National science
foundation, Party politics, 

AAAS fellowships for policy

Policy researcher at Deepmind.

Places of arms control and foreign policy

**Who is good fit?**

"but talking to people in the area and reading some of the literature
and thinking about where you think the gaps are, what areas you think
that you could shed light on given your background is definitely
something you should do."

In June 2017, [this podcast](https://80000hours.org/podcast/episodes/the-world-desperately-needs-ai-strategists-heres-how-to-become-one/) by Miles Brundage.

FHI, currently human and social dimensions, machine learning, cyber
security and zoology are possible "advanced degrees" in Oxford and FHI.

I find it almost impossible to read Superintelligence. There are a lot
of words and I think I am finding it hard to attach it to real things
and thus it is a boring feat to read it. It is dry as fuck. Everyone
seems to be falling on this book as very important to start work here,
Elon, Miles Brundage etc...  



**What are people doing? at AI EAOS?**


**Networking**

"All of the AI conferences are open to anyone who is capable of paying
for the trip and the ticket. Some examples of big AI conferences are
NIPS, ICML, IJCAI, AAAI, and so forth. NIPS is probably the biggest
[00:42:00] machine learning conference right now with an emphasis on
deep learning. ICML is also a very large one. Actually, I’m not sure
which one of those is bigger. I haven’t been to ICML, but I’ve been to
NIPS a few times. ICLR is also a deep learning specific conference. I
think going to conferences like that and specifically going to
workshops and symposia that are relevant to policy questions, which
often happens at these conferences. "

Governance of Emerging Technologies Conference POLICY, We robot
conference series,

FHI allows visitors.

For academic jobs university policy dictates what kind of degrees we
need to have to get in.



## AI ML types

## Being a GR in Global prio or GiveWell type EAO'S

**Who is he**

**Where all did he work?**


**REplicating work and becoming great** [13:38]

Replicating the paper by Burnside and Dollar @ the center for global
development


"No. And Bill kind of suspected that it wouldn’t. We … the sample was,
I don’t know, 70 or 100 developing countries studied from about 1970
to 1993. When I went back and rebuilt the data set, I was able to add
some more countries and also add more years of data, since time had
passed. So when we re-ran the numbers with the expanded data set, the
result just flipped, and now it seemed … the result was that foreign
aid works, in the sense of increasing economic growth in countries
that have good economic policies, which is a very influential result
because it gave foreign aid agencies a recipe for effectiveness,
seemingly."

This seems to me like fucking Data science nigga!

"I feel a strong desire to get to the bottom of things in order to
reduce the chance that I’m wrong. I have aptitude with quantitative
things and coding, and those are all very useful. I’m interested in
hearing and synthesizing different views, whether about methodology or
much broader questions. So, I have sort of a pluralist instinct in
that way. But there are lots of great researchers who contribute by
being less interested in what other people do and just pursuing their
own genius with aggression."

**Getting into Gates Foundation**

"Well, maybe I should first explain how I ended up at Gates, because
people may be interested in career moves. I was at the Center for
Global Development for 11 years. When I joined there, it was a similar
experience to earlier in my life. I knew I had some interests and some
aptitude but really wasn’t sure how I would be useful. And Nancy
Birdsall, the president, was kind enough to hire me and find ways to
use me over time."

**Moving from Quantitative to Priorities research**

"And I should say, I don’t see myself as somebody who can only do
research reviews. That’s what I’ve done here, out of a kind of
comparative advantage-type argument. But *at the moment actually I’ve
pivoted to something new that is very raw in my mind, so I probably
can’t speak about it very clearly, which is to participate in the
internal discussions that we’re having about what we call cause
prioritization.* The philosophical issues that come up when you think
about how much to put into animal welfare, versus taking care of
people. And how much to worry about problems today versus the far
future. And that’s not nearly as quantitative a set of questions, but
I still feel that I can contribute in the same spirit of seeking out
lots of different views and trying to synthesize and think critic"


**Math major working on random questions**

risk of geomagnetic storms messing with the electrical grid and, I
guess, other electrical equipment

2015 and 2017

**Statistics**

And that’s true regardless of the actual underlying distribution of
views in the world. Almost every case that we can imagine, you get a
bell curve when you repeatedly sample. And that’s a really powerful
result because it means you can start to construct confidence
intervals while remaining ignorant of the underlying distributions of
the things you’re studying.

So what you can do is you can take a data set like, all geomagnetic
disturbances since 1957, and then look at the [inaudible 00:59:09]
say, 300 biggest ones. What’s the right tail of the distribution? And
then ask which member of the generalized Pareto family fits that data
the best? And then once you’ve got a curve that you know … you know
for theoretical reasons is a good choice, you can extrapolate it
farther to the right and say, “What’s a million year storm look like?”


*Something called pre-registration*

Bayesian methods are becoming more important in econometrics.

I’ve come to understand pretty late some of the key Bayesian ideas,
and I’m still figuring it out. What I’ve come to understand is that a
classical statistical study doesn’t actually do what you want it to
do. What we want a study to do is say, “Given what we observe in the
real world, like in our experiment, here is the probability
distribution for the impact of deworming.” But actually research
doesn’t tell you that. It does not go from the data that’s out there
to the distribution for the impact. It’s actually the other way
around. It says, what the research can tell us is, “If the impact is
zero, here is the probability that we observe the data that we
actually do. If the impact is that it increases income 10%, here is
the probability that we observe the data that we actually do.”

**Deworming**

prior odds x post odds (with weak evidence)


**What do you worry about?**

I think the thing that I worry about most is that there’s some kind of
selection bias. Maybe there are 10 plausibly good interventions out
there, that are like deworming, and all have been the focus of similar
research. And just by chance, this is the one that got the nice
p-value in the original study. Or, to be more precise about it, maybe
just by chance there was some true imbalance in the original
experiment. Which can happen. You know, that’s generating all these
results, and so then we’re gravitating to the one thing that just by
chance, is looking good. That’s what I worry about.

Explicit representation of uncertainty using Guesstimate

**JOBS**

And it might mean that we need new institutions or new kinds of
processes outside of academia, or inside, that are funded by major
decision-makers. Maybe GiveWell, or Open Phil, or other
philanthropies, or government agencies need to be more routinely
funding this kind of scrutiny of published research before using it.

DATA Vigilantees.. Pre-register and publish

And, if they find they can make a career of it, that’s good. I argued
before, my impression is it’s hard to do that because you alienate …
you can alienate a lot of people whose friendship and support you may
need at some point. And if there’s anybody really good at that, I’d
like to meet them, because I could use some help here.

Robert Wiblin: *Do you think more people should be doing* what you’re
doing? Is the balance out of whack?

David Roodman: Absolutely. I don’t know of many people who are doing
what I do. But you just told me about these … data vigilantes.

Robert Wiblin: *Data vigilantes.*

David Roodman: I’d love to meet them.

Robert Wiblin: It’s a handful of people, so.

David Roodman: Okay. Yeah. I think we need more of it. I mean, that’s,
I’m obviously biased, but it’s just striking, as I say, to overturn
about half the things I look at and realize that we need more serious
review if we’re going to rely on this stuff for making big decisions.

Robert Wiblin: How can someone get paid to do this, other than working
at Open Phil? Are there other funders?

David Roodman: I think it may be hard to establish oneself, but I
think that if one is working on policy-relevant stuff, increasingly
there ought to be space at think tanks that are appropriate for
whatever area you’re interested in.

*I know that there are funders who are interested in the state of
research and trying to improve it. And there are more and more
journals publishing replications.*



**What DR is doing now**

What we call cause prioritization. I think we’re up at about the $200
million per year level now, and could very well go higher, you know,
get on the scale of Dustin Moskovitz [inaudible 01:37:23] his fortune.

We’ve really got to make some firm decisions about how much we want to
put into catastrophic risks versus GiveDirectly versus whatever,
versus animal welfare.

**Other lectures I could possibly listen to**

I’ve been thinking more about moral philosophy than I ever have
before. I listened to Nick Beckstead and Will MacAskill and Toby Ord.


**Claims**: Training in concrete emperical work does help in cause
prioritization, 

I’ve been thinking more about moral philosophy than I ever have
before. I listened to Nick Beckstead and Will MacAskill and Toby
Ord. So, I’m thinking about these kinds of philosophical questions of
how much you weigh animals versus people, and the far future versus
the present. And then I think we’ll shift pretty soon to trying to do
a critical review of the AI safety question. That’s a big potential
focus for us is trying to minimize the harm from artificial
intelligence.

Not a lot, no. It’s a general … I mean, of course there are stylistic
similarities in whatever I do.

**Becoming david roodman**

You need to have a foundation in statistics, and if not that,
mathematics. I have found that replicating existing work is a great
way to learn stuff, and there are more and more studies that you can
download and … whose data and code you can download and start playing
with.

**Working in an ORG vs NOT**

It’s one thing for me to say, “I’ll go replicate a study.” It’s
another thing for me to be in the privileged position of feeling
useful and knowing that what I come up with is wanted, and that really
helps me push ahead.

**Knowledge**

**pro con think tank start**

- can make connections
- good ways to think about historical, justice and admin issues

I think it’s … there’s supply and demand, right? I think a lot of
recently-graduated PhDs are pretty leery of going into the think tank
world, because it basically represents a permanent decision not to
pursue an academic career. Because if you are going to spend, say,
three or five years at a think tank or do some real work there, and
then you decide, actually, you want an academic tenure-track position,
then you’re three to five years behind in your life, in a sense.




I know when I started in think tanks, I stay there a very long time,
and so I was removed from practical decision-making by being in
government or philanthropy or business.

**Demand and supply**

So that narrows the demand for such jobs. The number of slots is
probably not huge. The Center for Global Development, in the 12 years
I was there, I think hired two newly-minted PhDs. Michael Clemens and
Justin Sandefur. Now, I guess there are a few hundred think tanks, so
maybe that’s *a few hundred positions over a decade*. So it doesn’t seem
like a huge number, but I don’t know quite how the supply and demand
balance out.

**Books**

Portfolios of the Poor, that financial services, although they’re
invisible, are really important

Okay, I just wanted to flag for listeners that there was a bunch of
other research that you’ve done that we could have talked about
including changing murder rates in the US over the last couple of
years, the effect of alcohol taxes on health, the effect of immigrants
on wages, the Commitment to Development Index, which is … attempt to
look at how policies other than just aid policy affect the developing
world. And effects of development and in particular reducing infant
mortality on fertility.

Righteous mind by Jonathan Heidt.
Joshua Green called Tribal Mind.


 and then look at 80khours link on what books to read and
add the social books as well

## Is AI safety better than GR in GiveWell? (done)
#### **Claims**:  AI safety has more impact than GR in GiveWell

**Example**: 

For GR in GiveWell type EAO's, impact is expected to be in the order
of 230k<span>$</span> per year. 

For AI safety work, it appears that only [100 people are working on
it](https://80000hours.org/problem-profiles/positively-shaping-artificial-intelligence/) and that another 100 people working on it brings the risk down
by [1%](https://80000hours.org/problem-profiles/positively-shaping-artificial-intelligence/). So 1 billion people being saved by 200 people. Let's
arbitrarily assume that we are responsible for a low 1% of the impact
and that donors and "others" are responsible for the rest. So
1%x1%x3400<span>$</span>x7billion/40years/200people =
3000k<span>$</span>; These numbers aren't exact and can't be verified
and the best I would say is:

They seem to be in the order of magnitude of working in a typical
EAO.

**IT SHALL BE NOTED THAT THIS 1% IS INSANELY SENSITIVE and hence I am
uncertain**

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 

I suspect maybe 1% is too low of a contribution from my side, just
making that 2% would double the impact. In the case of Milan Griffes,
he assumes 30% of contribution from donors and 10% as his contribution
compared to the rest of the organization. This comes to about 3%. If
we use this alone, we can probably guess that there would be more
impact if we work in AI safety.

So we seem to agree that being in AI safety might be more important to
us than being a GR in GiveWell. Whether that means being an ML
researcher is another question. How to work in AI safety seems to be
the next important question... This has maybe nothing to do with ML. 

So I could be the technical guy or the warren buffet they are looking
for. There are these hidden claims I am spitting out.. Lets confront
them...

As of this moment I don't understand anything about superintelligence,
cause I am unable to judge it. It all looks like a fantasy prediction
book. But I assume the greats are afraid of something and we shall put
our questions on hold for now.

#### **Claims**: Global priorities research?
## How to get into AI safety

With this I want to check if I can work in AI safety and if I should
start somewhere randomly in EAO or should I start at something specific.

#### **Claims**: 80khours recommends jobs for people other than in
coding background or ML or DS

**Example**: 

https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/artificial-intelligence-risk-research/

1. Technical research (ML):

Strongly discouraging as they require strong CS abilities (top 10 CS programs)

AI safety, strategy and existential risk research... HUH?

"Highly technical", Work here is highly technical, involving computer
science, machine learning, logic, and philosophy

- Implementation
- fundamental research

Who is allowed?

Do well in top 10 uni masters or PhD programs in math or CS.

You enjoy thinking about philosophical questions.

You enjoy doing research in general.

2. strategy 

3. forecasting

**Guide to policy and strategy**

- direct research on questions, 
- working within governments & industries
- advocacy
- helping with recruitment.

"There is probably more long-term value to be created at the moment
from direct work on strategic analysis and the development of feasible
solutions to implement, rather than advocacy, given the limited set of
good proposals currently available to promote. "

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 
- Strategy research
- Forecasting work
- Technical work
- 

Here is what two people did to get into ML in AI safety:
https://80000hours.org/articles/ml-engineering-career-transition-guide/


Yes in strategy and policy. For example : take from 80khours website.


#### **Claims**: I should do ML instead of strategy or policy in AI
safety

What will the example even look like? huh? So I am essitally claiming
Me in ML is better than Me in strategy.... Good luck. First of all
good luck counting impact, second of all personal fit? assuming same
impact for fucks sake check out personal fit? I mean "personal fit"

To evaluate Personal fit, I can look at my past. 

Maybe it is good to see what does this under 30 skill thing talk about?

Personal fit could include how? bro! its all a stupid fucking guess

Need for Citizenship?
Need for Masters?
Need for 

fastest route to become employable in AI safety?


Or ask someone in the field

#### **Claims**: I can't do policy in AI safety

#### **Claims**: I should do AI safety instead of GPR

**Claims**: Life will suck being a GR (I will feel like now)

**Claims**: What will I do when I am 70 and USELESS?

**Claims**: Atleast with ML I can keep working forever

**Claims**: This is my last chance to take a leap and go full retard
as I am nearing thirty. Dooms day pandiya.

#### **Claims**: Possible to work in other aspects other than ML or
Mathematics for AI safety

Niel Bowerman works in AI policy, Sean works is "leading an
Interdisciplinary research programme on the future of AI, focusing on
foresight, governance, security, and international cooperation". Worst
of all Sean has a background in philosophy.

So it seems possible to atleast do other things in this community.

#### **Claims**: Background can be anything and you can still end up in
AI safety.

**Example**: Neil Bowerman, started in climate science and today is
known as an AI specialist at 80khours. 

Seán Ó Heigeartaigh on the other hand started in philosophy and moved
into existential risks and then further into Impacts due to AI.

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 
Not the best examples (considering my baseline, age, capability
etc...) but coding is not everything, atleast with these two
examples. Maybe you need shit like citizenship etc...

#### **Claims**: I can work in ML for organizations like DeepMind in
2-5 years

#### **Claims**: I can work in GR for organizations like GiveWell in
1-2 years
## Is it needed to get into ML

**Claims**: ML has shortages of people

**Claims**: Getting into ML is possible  (can be done at 29 from
scratchish)

**Claims**: I am not afraid of ML being really computationally
intensive and lack of feedbacky


## EAO salary? is it enough for my adambara vaalkai

Here I want to explore how other people are managing to live, with
limited savings? What if you are not able to save money? for
retirement, for a time when they lay you off or for that heart
condition that your insurance doesn't cover anymore or for other
things US.

Somehow a 200k DS salary seems to alleviate all problems.


I never really considered this for other salaries. 

How can I save for retirement with this? What if I get laid off of my
50k<span>$</span> job? What if I need a nurse cause I don't got family
to take care of me?



## ML

Impact of ML in what forms? Can I get into that form of impact? how?

seems to be related to AI alignment 

So whether I choose ML or try to be a generalist researcher is founded
on what is needed (talent survey) or what has more impact? This is
it. This is the question I should next look to answer. interesting!

In order to know if something is what I need to do, I need to look at
what is needed, and also find out what is the demand for it. Based on
this I could decide if I need to take go in the direction of A or
B. In this case, I am unsure how to determine the demand. Perhaps
check with 80khours? or maybe an STM?


#### **Claims**: ML in EAO's is in "good" demand

**Example**: 

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 

#### **Claims**: The EAO community needs more generalist researchers
than ML people.



#### **Claims**: ML has more impact than generalist researchers

#### **Claims**: SE in AI safety has similar impact as normal DW in
say GiveWell

I don't know how to break it down even. *no-example* 

#### **Claims**: I can do SE and move to AI safety in 1 years

#### **Claims**: I can do SE and move to AI safety in 2 years

#### **Claims**: Is there something better to do?

#### **Claims**: I will enjoy debugging with feedback over days

#### **Claims**: ML will survive until the future.

atleast others don't take 5 years to get up to speed I think.

This is so hard and non-solvable! 

#### **Claims**: Is it possible to get into ML related to AI safety?
	
https://80000hours.org/articles/ml-engineering-career-transition-guide/

#### **Claims**: There are ways to get DS/ML jobs in the US from
Netherlands

### Options to get into ML

https://80000hours.org/articles/ml-engineering-career-transition-guide/

**qualifications**

- BSc/BEng degree in computer science or another technical field (or
comparable experience) Strong knowledge of software engineering (as a
benchmark: could pass a Google software engineering interview)
Interest in working on AI safety (usually) Willingness to move to
London or the San Francisco Bay Area

A job in deepmind that seems "possible"

https://deepmind.com/careers/jobs/1433588?utm_campaign=80000%20Hours%20Job%20Board&utm_source=80000%20Hours%20Job%20Board

BSc/BEng degree in computer science, mathematics, physics, electrical engineering, machine learning or equivalent (MSc/MEng preferable)
Strong knowledge and experience of Python
Knowledge of machine learning and/or statistics
Strong knowledge of algorithm design

OpenAI, DeepMind all of these companies have excellent pay and
benifits (20+days vacation), 401k and dental and all insurances.

And now you will be working on AI safety.

Prep is needed but "seems possible". Probably highly competitive, then
maybe it is not for me?

**Claims**: I am too late for a machine learning PhD.

[listen to this podcast](https://80000hours.org/podcast/episodes/jan-leike-ml-alignment/),



### Becoming an ML panindian pandian

Ask an Steth for feedback on if I should and what he thinks about
it. But I kid you not it excites me beyond anything. I could consider
quitting my job or working as less hours as possible the next year.

There is a real possibility to work 2.5 days a week. Need to check
consequences on NL visa. Need to check what the scene is with NL visa.


Its mainly about implementation and getting experience debugging it.

For the love of god if an STM axes me to jump, I will. just like he
did with other things.

Here is the explanation of why ML algorithms are hard to debug...

Machine learning Phd has 4/5 stars but working in an EAO has 5/5 somehow.

### Summary
## What is interesting in life
#### **Claims**: All careers will be interesting

80khours looked up 32 studies about what will be interesting.


## Age

I have it in my mind that once I am 30 I can't try out other things
anymore. For example, I think am already late for an MBA at 28. At 33
I can't do MBA anymore. After 35 I will be too late to switch say I
made the wrong decision as a researcher.

## Notes: No more consulting

https://80000hours.org/articles/alternatives-to-consulting/

## Money

Will I have money for retirement? What to do if I am fired? Do I need
more CC now? What if I am injured and need someone to take care of me?
Is the american health care system going to save me?

https://www.theguardian.com/money/2019/nov/09/i-give-away-half-to-three-quarters-of-my-income-every-year

https://qz.com/515655/this-couple-lives-on-6-of-their-income-so-they-can-give-100000-a-year-to-charity/

Thalaivar showed me a finance blog... need to read it! So much shit om
*testable* doen.

**Claims**: Working at an EAO I will not be able to save for
retirement

**Claims**: I will not be able to save for (emergencies) nureses etc...

## Which EAO? and in What capacity?
#### **Claims**: I should beef up skills in the context of increasing
funds, retention of donors program.

**Example**: for this I will check what type of work is needed
according to founders, get it?

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 
What type of work founders want now? get it? not later or not in 10
years, cause I cannot seem to see that far. How will I see that far
anyway?

What are my limitations? how am I ever going to get there.

---



#### **Claims**: Working at GiveWell is better than donating to money to
MIRI.



#### **Claims**: GiveWell is the best place to work in?

#### **Claims**: You are not replaceable if you work at EAO

**Example**: check for replaceable in 80khours

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 
---

#### **Claims**: I should be focusing on GiveWell instead of AI

**Example**: 

**Definition**: 

**Checklist**: 
 
---

#### **Claims**: I should be focusing on MIRI

#### **Claims**: I should start with DS first and then move on to EAO, you
know "flexible career capital" and shit.



#### **Claims**: GiveWell is the best place for me to work.
## Other


#### **Claims**: working at givewell is the golden standard

#### **Claims**: DS is better than DE comparing €, 

#### **Claims**: DS in California is better than DS in Europe comparing €.

#### **Claims**: comparing SE and DS, it looks like DS is a better choice

#### **Claims**: working in DS gets you better opportunities in DW.

#### **Claims**: DS in America is better than MBA.

#### **Claims**: I should work now in DW instead of waiting for a few years
learning DS and working in DS.

#### **Claims**: Very hard to start up and succeed compared to getting into
DW.

#### **Claims**: Econ. Phd is not worth it as compared to working DS.

#### **Claims**: Dubai is not a good option to go to now and start working.


#### **Claims**: IB will result in your bad health conditions

#### **Claims**: I am too OLD to do an MBA.

#### **Claims**: Chances of survival with MC> IB

#### **Claims**: DS is the best choice 

## Moving to environment

I was in India recently. The last time I went there for 6 months I
avged (X hrs of work per day).

This time when I went there I averaged <1hr a day. This is patheitic
considering that I went there to do work.

There was all sorts of distractions, people to meet, appointments with
friends, anxiety due to certain actions (like talking to girls or
being bullied by hh) that led to days being lost in thought and lack
of ability to transcend that.

Today I am here in my zone, in my room, cooped up and finally (I
stumpled on some progress) also been mentally masturbating watching
casey neistat youtube videos, but atleast free of this shit
persuation.

I hate my phone, there is always some drama (friend pranav calling and
saying I say no to everything etc...) etc... I am done. 

Still there is tons of distraction I did sleep for 1.5 hrs and 2 hrs of
breakfast and 1.5 hr of wathcing more stuff as I ate some shit lunch.

But nevertheless, I got some work done. Without people I suspect I
will be much more productive or in my zone. There seems to be way too
many people in india and seems like the worst choice. I am doubting
whether cali is also a good choice considering I don't have my own
space and I have quite some friends whos jizz I like (metaphoric). 

Despite realizing multiple times that somebody had to work I just
couldn't bring myself to it. I kept procrastinating. Even on the last
day I still wanted to go and suck the dick of my friends for a coule
of hours. Meeting people and having awkward conversations gives me
axiety for a day atleast before the meet. I hate that and I can't
fucking work at that time. 

Cure is to reduce this shit or fucking not be in such
positions. Enough of the rant. Let's get back to business.

## plan 29 dec

Figure out if i need citizenship?

**Claims**: I need citizenship to work in GiveWell, 80khours and open
phil....

**Example**: 

"Please note that for this position we're currently not accepting
applications from candidates who need authorization to work in the
U.S."--- [Donor Engagement and Retention Specialist @ GiveWell](https://www.givewell.org/about/jobs/donor-engagement-and-retention-specialist)

"Please note that for this position we're currently not accepting
applications from candidates who need authorization to work in the
U.S."--- [Content Editors at GiveWell](https://www.givewell.org/about/jobs/content-editor)




**Claims**: Age for DS

**Example**: Seems to be telling otherwise


Do I need to be in US to get this job? or do I need to have a H1b to
get this job? Any job will need H1b right? Even if they sponsor me
from our site...


I guess what I am asking is if 

april H1B apply for lottery.. OCt to get H1b smooooth (4 months!) visa
indrew pass... nov dec

once in a year...

nonprofit 

Possbility to move to other H1B's related 




**Claims**: There are "good" exit opportunities


**Claims**: Once in DS, it is not possible to switch to GR? with H1B

So my thinking is to get citizenship/PR here. and then keep working
hard and apping to givewell and seeing where I stand. 

My fear is if I am never good for GiveWell, or if I loose my job, then
DE is all I have... imagine the type of contribution I can be making?
There are other think tanks?

Can I give myself one last 6 months to get GiveWell worthy?

Figure out best ways to get into the US

If I should do it now or later?

Do I need citizenship?

Confusion as a result of changing citizenships

Figure out about DS jobs in ASML

What does it mean to become a Generalist researcher

## Dutch citizenship

#rojaps and that guy (pichus friend)

- ASk rajappa what are the adv and disadv of loosing citizenship in
India

- Leaving country after a year of citizenship.. post citizenship
  rules?
  
- Ask about sending money to india

- paying taxes on land or money I may own in India

## DUTCH PR 

#immigration laywer of something or IND

- check post conditions for renewal

	Do I need to stay in NL continuously?
	Can I go to study abroad in the mean time? and still hold my
	status!
	
	Do I even need to stay in NL, if so for how long?
	
	

- 


## Conclusion

before that how long can you stay with PR forever?
speak to rojaps about becoming a citizen of another country boom!
advantages etc...

Money wtf are you gonna do abut it?

Is  65k enough nigga? 

What if I loose my job... I loose the possibility to fucking do DS and
atleast donate nam saying? 

Honestly I doubt I can become great, when I am working 12 hrs a
day... when am I going to improve?

I could work on it now, but where is the time?

What if I pick up DS here... parallelly work on the skills that they need?
## Statistics

| date | time | act | claims | words |   | min/claim | words/hr |
|------|------|-----|--------|-------|---|-----------|----------|
|      | 30   | 1   | 30     |       |   |           |          |
| 3/11 | 55   | 2   | 3      |       |   | 20        |          |
| 3/11 |      |     |        |       |   |           |          |


During the last 10 weeks life has been pathetic with many weeks (8
even), with < 18 hrs of work. Last 10 days I haven't done any work and
before that averaged 10 hrs a week. Pathetic. 

But if we know one thing, we know a way out of this hell... 

The next 20 days, if I average 6 hrs, everything can go to hell. To
average 8 hrs should be the key. 

I need to have goals. Goals to focus on and to finish to write etc...

Some goals could be
- "understand" mathivanan, why I sucked these last 7 weeks (deadline
  is the key)
  
- Finish this essay, come up with concrete things to do.

- work on making wc mode work.

- Try to write a simple program to make it work!

- maybe some statistics?

- Maybe some reading everyday?

- And working out everyday (swimming for half hour even and)

- 5 hrs of DP everyday. (working on claims! period)

I know its late. But As I said, there is a way out of this feeling
like shit hell (bro get your shit together), 


## todo

- finish up talent gaps and adambara vaalkai info
- revisit all sections (7)
  - check claims
  - check if the Summary is correct
  - Check if the intro is correct
- grammar (re-read and rewrite the article)
- conclusion
- statistics


## Wait

Wait this is getting complexer!

- CS -->  ML

- DS --> ML

- DS for ETG 

- GR in places like GiveWell

- policy

- Management 

It feels like all of these have potential. What does potential mean?
give an example...


I need to see an example career, check my capabilities, check impact,
and rate different options from there on. i.e., personal fit into impact

So what do I do, I am not sure....  Policy chuck it, management in
EAO's can be done through starting somewhere according to 80khours. I
will move on with that.

But whether I should consider GR or DS CS to ML? I am not sure. 

There are two questions at hand here: 
## log

https://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/08/us/08givewell.html

Say that holden was accused as behaving like a donor himself... I was
furious. I was like fuck GiveWell this should seriously tarnish GW's
works. WTF why do we have such a psycopath. Why is David Roodman even saying
shit like he is his boss. And bloody hell he is a TWISTED director of
open phil. 

But after I read what he actually did, I was totally fine. I guess he
tried to raise awareness that there was something better. For sure. it
is the truth. GiveWell is the something better org not based on some
random fucking shit. 

He was promoting GiveWell for it does. So I am ok! He was trying to
show people there is a better way to do research.

It's ok he should not do it again. But that's ok! he wont! he's cool.
asdfdsafdsafdsa
gdsafdsafdsafdsa
dsafdsafdsafdsafdsaz
gdsafdsafdsafdsa
hfgdafdsfdsafdsafdsafdsafdsz
jhdsfdsafdsfd
kj;lj;lkj
kljhlkjh
lkjhlkjhlkjhlkjh
;kjhlkjhlkjh
;kjhlkjhkjhkjh
## Testing 

