**Replaceability of person**

Counterfactual estimates for the value created by a person is the
difference between utility created when he exists and the utility
created when he doesn't exist. Say the job creates an impact of
X`$`. If you are completely replaceable, i.e., there is no utility
difference whether you are there or not, then your value per year is
0k`$`. If you are not replaceable at all, i.e., there is a job only
you can do and if you don't take it up, no one will do it, then you
get all of the impact from the job (all of X`$`).

But reality you are going to be somewhere in between. I look at a
scenario based on *many assumptions* to identify what could be my
impact based on how much better I am.

It appears that how good you are compared to the last person you
displace defines how much impact you will have. Assume the following
table.

There are two scenarios `Scenario WITH` and `Scenario WITHOUT`. `AA`
to `II` people exist. `AA` to `FF` work in EAO. `GG` to `JJ` work in
ETG in `Scenario WITH`. When `AA` is removed you get the `Scenario
WITHOUT`. `GG` moves to work in EA and his ETG is lost
unfortunately. `A`, `B`, ... `I` refer to their percentage
contribution of `AA`, `BB`, .... `II`'s in EA job. `EA` refers to
dollars moved. 

*Assuming all EA jobs have the same impact* makes the calculation
simpler, and we quickly see that the Counterfactual Impact (CI) = `A-G x
EA + ETG by GG`. 

Assuming `AA` got a job in GiveWell, and based on our calculation
above, we know that `EA` is 330k`$` and `A` is 100%. 
 
{:.tablestyletwo}
| Impact | Scenario WITH | Scenario WITHOUT | Difference            |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-----------------------|
| EA1    | AA            | BB               | A-B x EA              |
| EA2    | BB            | CC               | B-C x EA              |
| EA3    | CC            | DD               | C-D x EA              |
| EA4    | DD            | EE               | D-E x EA              |
| EA5    | EE            | FF               | E-F x EA              |
| EA6    | FF            | GG               | F-G x EA              |
|        |               |                  |                       |
| ETG1   | GG            | 0                | ETG by GG             |
| ETG2   | HH            | HH               | 0                     |
| ETG3   | II            | II               | 0                     |
| Total  | -             | -                | A-G x EA +  ETG by GG |


Typical passionate EAs seem to donate 10% of their income. If they are
from US this would be in the order of 20k with a 200k salary let's
say. If they are in the EU it would be in the order of 5-10k (which I
see as feasible).

Assuming `AA` is 20% better than `GG` and the person ETGing is from
EU, we get CI = `20% x 330k$ + 5k$` = `65k`.

---

CI for a person like David Roodman. Should he continue doing research
or should he start doing ETG. Is there someone who is currently not
doing EA to replace David Roodman? 

Do senior researcher roles get filled from other research roles or do
they have people coming from ETG. I see a number of people in GiveWell
and OPP who seem to have grown into the role of Sr. Researcher
([Natalie](https://www.linkedin.com/in/natalie-crispin-31b87717/), ~~[Catherine](https://www.linkedin.com/in/catherine-h-4b636421/)~~, [Andrew](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrew-martin-587186133/), ~~[Stephen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/guyenet/)~~,
[Alexander](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexander-berger-58906098/), [Luke](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luke-muehlhauser-15a09b26/), [Ajeya](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ajeya-cotra-90942b8b/), ~~[David Roodman](https://www.linkedin.com/in/david-roodman-aa70b96/)~~, [Teryn
Mattox](https://www.linkedin.com/in/teryn-mattox-189b2153/))

There are cases of people like Catherine and Jon Behar , who have come
into the like of GiveWell or TLYCS from being a journalist or from a
consulting job for >5 years. When you look at the senior research
analyst positions it appears that people grow into it. Teryn is a good
example, who has been working in Rand and now moved to GW recently. 

So when we get a job in GW 10 years from now, we still have the same
competitiveness, and we check our replaceability then, we see that if
we leave, we end up leaving a dent which will be filled by who ever is
there, it seems like you still care about that last person you
displace `GG`, who without 10 years of experience is probably going to
suck. So for the first few years even if I accept I suck and for the
rest if I don't, that seems to decrease my replaceability. So if I
assume an avg. replaceability of 70% even (seems high, considering
that with 10years of research I am going to be much better than `GG`), 

But I did kinda steal someones job at the bottom and didn't allow him
because I was a tad better. If you are better you get the job. It is a
meritocratic system here. Yes. If I don't intervene, prolly there is
not much impact, I guess I would try to work my ass off in DS and get
a job in the US. 

See then it just doesn't seem to matter what I do.. if we are both
pretty much good and are going to work our asses off then his ETG
would be the difference. If I ETG, it might probably be
similar. Assuming we are serious. And maybe more chance for him to
pick up a nice ETG job. 

So I want to know what people are ready to giveup. Are they like me?
Are they like 

If they want to replace someone from OPP who is a Senior, that is
going to be hard.

I will never come to solution on this now. Let's pack this and come
back later. It's a separate essay by itself.
