---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "The Last Dance"
date:    21-05-2020 
categories: posts
tags: 
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---


## Entry Questions

It's all about claims and examples. Common, Let's go.

I would like to know if I should take the masters route to DS or if I
should do an L1 route in DS? I think my mind is already made up for
certain reasons, such as bad probabilities (tbc), and I can still try
to do both? like Peterey? **ask peter why he thinks I should join EA
and try for DS. That seems to be suggesting that EA is more valuable
than regular.**


I would like to know if I should take DS or should I try to pursue EAO
and work towards that.

## This is your crucial considerations

**What are the things that you would consider that would topple the
thing.**

Based on impact, savings, back-up plans, anxiety, probability, debt
DS Masters and L1 dance (anything unresearched? better the estimates?
or ? maybe add why you think what you think and take it from
there.)(~~**done**~~)
	 - costs
	 - savings
	 - prolty 
	 - anxiety
	 - debt
	 
~~Estimating some 90% confidence interval?~~

Positions I want to choose and its replaceability (~~morning~~)
Understanding spill over effects?

Value of an EAO for different positions based on  (~~morning~~)

Will I get EA job ~~Done~~ mybe internships and not actual jobs

How I think Statistics, claims, RCT, hypothesis testing, biases, DS is
all tied. My vague intuition. And why it helps to stay in this middle
ground?**today**

Questions for Peter? (TODO!) and look for what to do next.~~now~~

THE PLAN (comapare DS impact to EA impact)
- different scenarios?

- why the DS course in  MIT is useful **tomorrow**

WRITE UP EVERYTHING. **Day after**

**Check out all the claims you make by reading your content**

What about roles like product manager after like an MIMS in UC
berkeley **tomorrow**

My upskilling plan?
	- What about roles like product manager after like an MIMS in UC
   berkeley

Becoming MJ hall of famer and focusing on rationality max

Need to make 78 hr weeks fucking hell! keep busy for the next three
months.

What I have going for me, is that i am not going to marry, probably
not going to have a girlfriend, I don't htink am a meet no body. I
don't got time for this shit. It's ok son! You have bigger wars! Next
5 years... **I have to be the epicest son of a bitch**. TIME is in my
favor. Still how Peter works 2 jobs in insane. Maybe I need to
investigate Could just become liek that pakistani guy?

Will I get jaaps in DS (Will I?) (**today**)

Will I get jaaps in EAO (**today**)

**Compare DS vs EAO**    **today**

**Propose scenarios and check it out**  **today**

## Conclusion

I am not convinced as yet that working in an EAO as a
researcher/datascientist/statistician/Charity entre is always better
compared to working in DS. Especially considering replaceability. 

DS with masters sounds risky especially in the trump regime. DS with
L1 I don't know the chances, but people have done in it in SWE,
Financing, management. I don't know how to do it yet, but people have
done it. If I focus on being great, worst case in a few years I can
still appluy... Apparently when doctors from Pakistan and people who
are 37 can make the jump SURELY I can.

I think this is something that makes or breaks Replaceability.

I can revist this thread in 6 months.

## Replaceability

We need to know about this.

So let's start with the basics. So there are two people A gets a job
because he is 20% better than B. A takes the job and contributes a
value of 300k`$`. B picks up an ETG job in europe and donates 10k
(really pushing it but ok.) and so on.  Total impact is 310k.

Counterfactual is when A does nothing. In this case B takes the job
and makes an impact of 240k. Total impact is 240k. 

So A's actual impact when he is there or not is around
`310-240=70k`. If A was better by 10%, then A's actual impact would be
`310-270=40k`. 

---

But its not likely (maybe) that B has to go and take up a job like
this in Europe. B might be good enough to get another job in another
EA. And there also might be C, D, E and so on many people with
decreasing capability who get various jobs and the x,y,z's taking a
job in India or somewhere where they are able to do 1-2k per year. 

Situation with : 300 + 200 + 150k + 100k + 10k +0k

Situation without : 200 + 150k + 100k + 10k + 0k

difference = 100k (same as just looking at just two people.)


Situation with: 300 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 200 + 200 + 200 +
200 + 200 + 100 + 100 + 100

situation without: + 240 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 200 + 200 + 200 +
200 + 200 + 100 + 100 + 100

job value x your value

A decent job at an EAO is not going to go vacant (simply don't believe
that in research looking at EAF or OPP or CE this year)

**All jobs same value, people not, last job in EA taken, ETG in Europe**

4x 100%, 4x 90%, 8 jobs, 4x ETG in Europe, 20% reduction replaceability

Situation with: 300 + 300 + 300 + 300 + 270 + 270 + 270 + 270 + 10 +
10 + 10 + 10

Situation without: 300 + 300 + 300 + 270 | + 270 + 270 + 270 + 243 |+
10 + 10 + 10 + 0

Value: 67k @ 10% replaceability and 118k @ 20% replaceability

*Value = each mismatch in value summation*

**All jobs same value, people not, last job in Not EA taken**

4x 100%, 4x 80%, 8 jobs, 4x ETG in Europe

Situation with: 300 + 300 + 300 + 300 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 240 + 10 +
10 + 10 + 10

Situation without: 300 + 300 + 300 + 240 | + 240 + 240 + 240 + 0 |+
10 + 10 + 10 + 10

Value: 300k

**90% replaceability and NO other jobs**

Situation with: 300 + 0

situation without: 240 + noone else

Value: 60k

**No replaceability**

Situation with : 300

situation without : 0 

Value: 300k

---

so what are my assumptions:

1. Value is 300k for top job (without accounting for replaceability)

2. 20% reduction replaceability (could be 10 or even lower)

3. Assume I am on the top. (currently looking at what it could be)

4. Jobs get filled (yeah happy about this)

5. EAs are like the harvards, only the best minds go into them

Results

Its somewhere between no replaceability and full replaceability. and
maybe closer to full replaceability than no replaceability.

Smaller replaceability => much smaller valuation in the end.

Increasing the number of people in all three brackets does not seem to
change the answer. 



Timeline 1 year...

Assuming there are 100s of "good-resumes" people as OPP said. OPP was
happy with the top 5 and then "next 5" had potentially chance to get
into OPP. So not everyone were OPP level even though they had
"good-resumes".




people are of such high quality...



--- 

exploration research is so hard, to keep motivated to get shit done. I
am struggling.

## retry replaceability (roughly ok)

0. Orgs seem to be able to find the people they need (of whatever
   quality). They seem to be able to always have one extra good
   candidate atleast.
   
1. We know so far that replaceability is in the range of 90-100%
according to 2 people from GH&P. But this number needn't be the same
for all vacancies in EA.

2. The Value not including replaceability of person is 320k based on
   OPP and GiveWell seems to be in similar order 300k as per Milan
   Griffes calculation
   
3. We are only looking at money moved and not actual impact from the
   money moved (which could be a relevant factor), but due to lack of
   any insight we don't go further. 
   
4. Simplifying calculations if we have such a 90% replaceability and
   the other person doesn't do anything valuable then the total
   utility = 60k
   
   4. but I was told by one of the GH&P people that it could even
   be as high as 100%, in which case the above would be = `0k`
   
5. If no one can replace you and the job is open, then you get all the
   impact aka = 300k
   
6. It's unlikely that the other person does nothing and we would
   expect a chain of people being displaced in our presence and
   absence. So the total value seems to be ranging from 60k to 300k.

7. Let's assume that all EA jobs are the same and that people have
fixed % they can contribute to in each job.

Let's look at the person who got the job A. 


Situation 1: A got job @ AA. A was as good as B. B got a job though @
BB. Same with C. All could make a value of 300k.

But somewhere down the line... 

G got a job @ GG, H @ HH, J @ JJ and K @ KK. GHJK were all equal in
worth but when they applied to position FF they didn't get the job
because they were not good enough. G-K were 10% worse than A-F. My gut
feeling is somewhere down the line or right at the beginning people
are bound to suck. *Whether it is 4 or 1 people the outcome will be
the same.* The total utility depends on the changes.

Somewhere down the line, some candidates didn't make it to the EA, but
live in the US and are able to make it to some DS job in the US
donating 60k. So P-R do that. and give to GH&P orgs where they still
have space to increase impact by funding.

A couple of people in europe donating 10k per year.

A couple of them from India also didn't get the job and so started
working in some jobs in ETG in India, donating about 3k a year.


Total expected value: 4x300 + 4x300x0.9 + 4x300x0.89 + 4x60 + 4x10
+4x3 

Situation 2 when A gets out and the european gets the job: 3x300 +
 4x300x0.9 + 4x300x0.89 + 4x60 + 1x300x0.89x0.9 + 3x10 + 4x3

Siuation 3 when A gets out and the American gets the job: 3x300 +
 4x300x0.9 + 4x300x0.89 + 3x60 + 1x300x0.89x0.9 + 4x10 + 4x3

Diff in Value with situation 2: 69.7k @90% (European)  i.e., 81%

Diff in value with situation 3: 119.7k @90% (American) i.e., 81%

Diff in valye when you can't be replaced: 300k


Diff in Value with situation 2: 118k @  80% (european) i.e., 64%
Diff in Value with situation 2: 168k @  80% (european) i.e., 64%

So it appears the main contribution is the first ETGer who just missed
the jobs. so his salary (10-60k) + What he missed compared to the
beginning of the chain where displacement begins (300x(1-X%))

So Loss in ETG due to him joining + his actual contribution.

Displacement chain shows that C.value depends on the last person
missing the chain compared to the start, and that last persons ETG lost.

--- 

## Product manager?

Doing a masters in information sciences sure... i don't know what is
the goal after that.. Believing that I will be abel to get into Ea
after than seems far fetched. atleast I don't have an example.

But I have seen examples of people starting as a researcher and then
growin glike crazy (person from AJPAL and person in OPP who started in
GiveWell). So that will be my prefered route. Also milan Griffes going
from some random Givewell to Ought. Not sure what he is doing there,
but ought works in AI realted to understanding text or sumpin.

the world is my oyester.... 

Fuck this idea for now,,... I have not much to say about this.



Peter says if you give 80k'$' to RP you will make as much impact as
that researcher because it will allow them to hire another full
guy. Is that true? ah its the counterfactual content. I think. That is
his salary, but how much does he move? but RP does research.


L1 career Prolty x impact x yoe <--> EA career Prolty x impact x yoe  
L1 career Prolty x 150k x 25 <-->  EA Career Prolty x 70k to 120k x 30
L1 career Prolty x 2500k to 3750k <--> EA Career Prolty x 2100k to 3600k

If I work for RP 81k 

If I work for CE 200k

numbers seem to be consistant with my estimate alteast the order of
mag for sure and depending on replaceability.


## Growing into GP&H?


## DS Masters vs L1

so far i have probability numbers... 

When I look at a master prolty, the basic proly of just ending up with
an H1B leaving everything to do with skill is estimated at 80% for the
H1B over three years. This sounds pretty good, until you look at the
rejections of extensions and H1Bs after the lottery. This pertains to
me I think because I am not having the right background. 

I don't have examples of people who have mech priors and did DS
masters. I don't know what it means for us people. But let's say CS is
anonymous with DS. There are cases of people who are meche but moved
to CS without a masters even. 

When you don't have a masters in the right field you are rejected on
speciality occupation. When you don't have a masters in the right
field you are also not rejected on speciality occupation. Both seem to
receive their RFEs. 

But what I don't have evidence of is of a person who did some
bachelor's and then followed it up with a CS/DS masters... what
happened to him?

Does this make or break your situation? What if you saw evidence that
this path was fine?

I am not sure. 80% still seems ok. With a debt of 40k and 0 bank
balance. The chance of ending up with 40k debt that would take 5 years
to sort.

Will a DS master increase your chances with for RFE success?

Ideally in about 4-5 years I could potentially have my opportunity. 2
years to regular work + DP + 3 years of working. Something like. that.

## Scenarios

First scenario is I cross this 80% and then the 62% in RFE. Now I
still need a faang job and a high paying one. Let's say I work my ass
off

If I don't get a job or if I don't succeed in any of the probabilities
the alternative is to come back to Netherlands and pay off the debt
anywhere between 50 and 100k`$` depending on the type of university I
do my masters in. That would take me 5-10 years to pay off. Fucking
hell! I would be 44 years old still paying of debts. Sounds like a
sucky life with atleast more than 20%. the sad part is if I look back
upon my life atleast I have done something. The off chance of paying
off debt is. In addition there is the recession laying off, and all of
it that makes this debt just painful to bear. I know the risk reward
ratio is high. I am the kind of guy, who couldn't handle the stress of
house moving. I mean it got to me. Doing work is hard. I am the guy
who gets depressed max because people above him were making noise. I
can handle ONE THING AT A TIME. That's all. I can handle it, but don't
ask me to also produce the best owrk. But routinely people do it in
the US.  

But people regularly are doing it, how many people do I know who
failed? 

However if I take the L1 route, I can test waters. I can know apriori
if I am good. If I am not "GREAT". There are many people I know of who
made it to the US on L1. Finding the companies that do that would be
one way and beign particularly good at it would be the other part as
observed in the cases I know of (#shallow data science).

Lesser stress and lesser anxiety. 

Surely trying for a scholarship might be one way to go about it. But
that is going to extra hard, considering I was never scholarship
material, but I could see what is required there. 

**Conclusion:**

I think even if you don't factor in the RFE thingy, you still have the
problems with getting laid off in recession and h1b getting approved,
getting a job in your opt. Am afraid of debt sticking. I was stupid
the first time and I still have to pay that off. No man. I do it on
scholarship, work my ass off or L1 or whatever. I aint using my cash
reserves.

the fact is I am so far from GREATNESS that I can't even count on that
to think I will be fine in the end. 

Focus on greatness, then use it to claim what you want like the people
in Newyork from India. or people in Cali from India. These people were
not even that great. There should me some method to this
madness. Become gr8. Spend time on that panindian.


## DS L1 vs EA


## Will you get a job in EA and when (Predicta award?)

**Now**
Not I think. I was recently rejected by ,... after ....


Looking at OPPs recent hires... It should be almost impossible for me
to get in, but then you look at GiveWell and there still might be
hope.

I will look at OPPs recent hires, and GiveWells recent hires.

**GiveWell:**
Last 2 years
[yale](https://www.linkedin.com/in/oliviaroselarsen/) 2020 mba finished, [Stanford](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gracehultquist/) 2016 bachelors, [MIT Econ bach](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alicia-weng-50aa4117a/) 9 months
ago. :(; [oxford PhD founders pledge and multiple other things](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marinella-capriati-474814a5/)

[LSE and oxford](https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-snowden-1434a352/) 3 years + consulting stuff; [Yale](https://www.linkedin.com/in/catherine-h-4b636421/) (history 5
years senior); [4years Stanford political](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tracy-williams-99641a99/); [3 yaers Standford](https://www.linkedin.com/in/isabelarjmand/);
[Seemingly random university language literature etc... but grew from
conversation notes writer (1 yr to 3 yr as RA)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicole-zok-239219115/)

**OPP:**
Last 2 years or researcher !sr.
[Harvard](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacob-trefethen-82105350/) founder founder snapchat manager, PHD Rand Policy and
many othe rstuff (age 38ish), [oxford masters Yale newyork PHd](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joseph-carlsmith-8ab07148/)

**RP**  
[PHD psyc ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielawaldhorn/) Barcelona, involved with animals and something related
always (35ish), [random uni mathematics bach](https://www.linkedin.com/in/saulius-%C5%A1im%C4%8Dikas-0867b4a6/) software --> ACE to
CEA to RP, [Masters Phil Oxford, Phd at Eu ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/neildullaghan/) institute Research
Volunteer --> Research intern in CE to RP

**CE**

Researcher ALJPAL after political science degree

**CSIS**


need work eleigibility otherwise seems lite at least for intern. No
standout things


Again Focus on Greatness. It can so happen that i don't fit, in which
case I would have to pursue the L1 option. Try to donate as much as i
can. 

It hurts to know that I am going to be ordinary, well, not ordinary
but atleast something. 

Try to get into the US while trying to get into EA. 

## DS to EA

Peter MichealStJules (ML and DS),

### DS to co-founder type



## doing the DS courses

## finally look at the thigns


## finish research today... Tomorrow write up everything quickly and
then move on 


## What else is there 

So i am thinking I will do the ds course and micro eco course
etc.. and see how things go after  ido two projects.


But do you know anyone who did that? unable to find on
linkedin... that would be useful to see who did that and how to track it.


## Scenarios

Focus on being great

Do DS course on povarotti no?w

I will get jaaps in DS?


## Update

So where am I at?

I think I understand to some extent the possibility of getting a job
DS faang or Verizon level. What does that mean. I still see bootcamps
explore options such as pay after you get a job. I don't know who all
they will employ. 8 month bootcamps able to propel an electrical
Engineer PhD to DS. Not sure all the things that he levereged. He
could have. That's the problem with taking things on facevalue. this
guy has crazy publications, all sorts of skills. So am not sure that
is the right way to compare. You need an example of scratch to
greatness.


Getting a job in DS masters?



Getting a job via L1? 



So there is a good chance of debt with DS Masters. So I prefer the L1
route as a result of anxiety, stress, potential debt. I don't know
anyone with the L1 route (yet) who has gone from NL to US. I have
heard that there are examples. But I know cases of people who moved to
US under L1 after 2-3 years at a company. I should find such companies
I guess only when I am ready. And these people seem to be skilled, and
demanding move to US. There are cases of some people going to
California on a client visit, and then getting a job from NL after
that (not in DS Not yet). But it is a route people are pursuing. *I
think if you work on being really good L1 is definitely a
possibility.*

With DS masters my biggest fear is the RFE system which is broken and
which could fuck me up. 80%x62% resulting in about 50%. I will get RFE
even if I do an actual masters. I will get an RFE even if I do like an
MIDS masters online.

It will take me 5-10 years to go in the L1 route. 4 years to job in
California in MS route with the potential not being able to get a job
thing. With these things I claim a 300kTC based on one salaries in
Apple (FAANG). 150k should be possible based on the fact that home boy
JK can donate after 1-2 yrs of crazy savings.

EA orgs will have a valuation of 57k to 300k impact if I am 10% better
and working at GiveWell level orgs or . I can compare money donated to
money moved say in GiveWell because GiveWell needs money. GW is always
short of money.


The sad part is I dont' have prolty. but I have rough impact values
assuming same layoff chances. 

L1 career Prolty x impact x yoe <--> EA career Prolty x impact x yoe  
L1 career Prolty x 150k x 25 <-->  EA Career Prolty x 70k to 120k x 30
L1 career Prolty x 2500k to 3750k <--> EA Career Prolty x 2100k to 3600k

If I work for RP 81k is the salary not the amount of dollars moved and
not taking into account replaceability. I would just assume 10 times
money moved and 10% or less replaceability leaving us at 70k or sumping.

If I work for CE 200k

numbers seem to be consistant with my estimate alteast the order of
mag for sure and depending on replaceability.

I can work towards both careers. But I think the chance of L1 career
happening is more than that of EA career happening or could be
considered the same. In L1 career I am learning towards 3750k. In EA
career I am leaning towards 2100 k as I need to be on the level of
harvardites in the case of OPP and GW and in the case of RP not that
much, but atleast some oxford ties or lot of work in AEA. Jamie Harish
seems to not be standing out, but progressively got in. Trying small
jobs etc.. from a history bachelors to animal charity careers. In the
L1 case, not Harvard level, atleast.

The thing is people suggest to do both, keep options open, but both
seems to demand a different type of skill set. In DS career I
potentially will be delved in ML type work. 

BUT some "other" people seem to have done it. like Peterje. But I
don't see the point of doing it. Is there a point of struggling for both?



things to consider (might not be opportunities)
