## Topics to be covered

- what happens over time?

- Consider a job in GiveWell and calculate the different
  replaceabilities based on spill over
  
  
## Replaceability in the first year

- Supply is greater than the demand

There have been years' in which GiveWell managed to hire 7 people
instead of 4 which they wanted to start off with. Which is really
cool. 

- When I am dead and when I am alive

So it appears that I should calculate the difference of my existence
and taking up an EA job as opposed to doing nothing. I am torn if I
should take me doing another Earning-To-Give job instead.  There are
no basis for these arguments... They seem to be coming out of thin
air. So I am not sure which way to gag.

Let's say we want to improve impact... Which impact. The impact of the
world. I would ideally be interested in world where I don't exist and
in a world where I exist and boom shakalaka. This way you can know
what is exactly your contribution. 

So considering that.


### **Replaceability of person**

Counterfactual estimates for the value created by a person is the
difference between utility created when he exists and the utility
created when he doesn't exist. Say the job creates an impact of
X`$`. If you are completely replaceable, i.e., there is no utility
difference whether you are there or not, then your value per year is
0k`$`. If you are not replaceable at all, i.e., there is a job only
you can do and if you don't take it up, no one will do it, then you
get all of the impact from the job (all of X`$`).

But reality you are going to be somewhere in between. I look at a
scenario based on *many assumptions* to identify what could be my
impact based on how much better I am.

It appears that how good you are compared to the last person you
displace defines how much impact you will have. Assume the following
table.

There are two scenarios `Scenario WITH` and `Scenario WITHOUT`. `AA`
to `II` people exist. `AA` to `FF` work in EAO. `GG` to `JJ` work in
ETG in `Scenario WITH`. When `AA` is removed you get the `Scenario
WITHOUT`. `GG` moves to work in EA and his ETG is lost
unfortunately. `A`, `B`, ... `I` refer to their percentage
contribution of `AA`, `BB`, .... `II`'s in EA job. `EA` refers to
dollars moved. 

*Assuming all EA jobs have the same impact* makes the calculation
simpler, and we quickly see that the Counterfactual Impact (CI) = `A-G x
EA + ETG by GG`. 

Assuming `AA` got a job in GiveWell, and based on our calculation
above, we know that `EA` is 330k`$` and `A` is 100%. 
 
{:.tablestyletwo}
| Impact | Scenario WITH | Scenario WITHOUT | Difference            |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-----------------------|
| EA1    | AA            | BB               | A-B x EA              |
| EA2    | BB            | CC               | B-C x EA              |
| EA3    | CC            | DD               | C-D x EA              |
| EA4    | DD            | EE               | D-E x EA              |
| EA5    | EE            | FF               | E-F x EA              |
| EA6    | FF            | GG               | F-G x EA              |
|        |               |                  |                       |
| ETG1   | GG            | 0                | ETG by GG             |
| ETG2   | HH            | HH               | 0                     |
| ETG3   | II            | II               | 0                     |
| Total  | -             | -                | A-G x EA +  ETG by GG |


Typical passionate EAs seem to donate 10% of their income. If they are
from US this would be in the order of 20k with a 200k salary let's
say. If they are in the EU it would be in the order of 5-10k (which I
see as feasible).

Assuming `AA` (Me) is 10% better than `GG` and the person ETGing is
from EU (lowballs this value), we get CI = `10% x 400k$ + 5k$` =
`45k` per year. This I think is a really low figure. It could be
better than this.


- It depends on how much better than I am with the last person in the
displacement chain.

S


- The last person is probably


## Replaceability decreases over the years and as you get experience.

Should Roodman do Earning-To-Give or continue to do research (with 20
years of experience)? I don't know.... 


Senior research roles don't really get filled by promoting the people
in the bottom. Horzinticals also do happen. Even Roodman is a
horizontal entry. But no Roodmans spot is filled by someone lower of
him and so on until someone else gets displaced.

How to prove such a thing? how to make a testable thingy?

But we did have baker come in from consulting


experience... 

##  Clarifying my writing

In a world where I am not there and in a where I am there, I work hard
and get into GiveWell. I am just better than the person who didn't get
the job. by like 1% (according to our scores). But that is ok, if I
look at the displacement chain the last person is from RP and I am 10
% better than him and the person who didn't get 15%...


Now Let's say I have 15 years of skills by going into an econ Phd. I
find a senior role available. I compete with Jon Beyer Catherine to
take that role and I get it because I am just better than them. In
this case Jon is already doing MC and is probably donating more now?
and Catherine is probably continuing to be a force to reckon with in
Hilary's white house campaign. So there was no displacement chain. 

however if roodman also applied to the same posting then what you see
is that his posting in world bank or whereever gets free and there is
a displacement chain there.


Let's say a post opened up for sr. researcher at GiveWell and people
lik Stephen appeared. who was skillling himself up with his books phd
and post doc. and apped here. I don't want to say if he didn't get in
here he would have done something high impact. Thats is the kind of
shit posts that 80000hours would write right?

## 

- Replaceability decreases over time

So this guy David Roodman is working for Worldwatch institute. There
is an opening in GiveWell. So he is good enough and gets in. This
means the others who missed the job are doing something else. 

The people who competed with him are Jon Behar (from consulting)
people below in the ladder at GiveWell.

**Claim**: With more experience comes more lesser replaceability added
to the impact. 

**re-write Claim**: With 2 years experience there exists lesser
replaceability than with 0 years experience

no experience what is the replaceability?

we look at the table and see that it is you are 


Sunk cost. 

If you steal someone elses opportunity to gain exp then it doesn't count
