---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Replaceability"
date:    21-04-2020 
categories: posts
tags: 
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---

## Replaceability references

MSJ's shitty article. Paul Christino, My own interpretation, the values on
replaceability I have for different industries on GR atleast.

Btodd has apparently written a thesis on this:
https://www.academia.edu/1807196/Which_Ethical_Careers_Make_a_Difference_The_Replaceability_Issue_in_the_Ethics_of_Career_Choice



## Level 1 level 0

## Estimates I have

Aaron Editor, Peter from CS, TLYCS, EAF, others I asked were CEA, OPP,
FHI



I think if I leave the idea of writing an article on EA forum then the
time taken would be pretty low. consider not even doing it for the
website. Cleaning up takes time and Should only be done wheni am
actually interested in something like praises or I want to communicate
my thoughts. But for gen analysis I dond't need it and I am not going
to take the pressure and huge wastage of my time to do that. **I don't
need to**.

## Level 1 and Level 0 estimates

Let's make some assumptions. Let's go ahead and say that all EA jobs
can produce a value of 400k$. Or atleast 400k$. We will use the lower
limit as the only number for us. 

Level 0 thinking suggests. A and B app for a 400k$ job. A can do 400k$
but B is 10% worser than A(as seen in the exams that were done). A
naturally gets the job. B is left to dogs. In other words looking at
counterfactual and actual A produces 100k$ value. So if A has the
opportunity of doing anything better than 100k$ then he should take up
such an ETG job. 

Thigns the above misses are the uncertainty in the replaceability
numbers, B could do other things. There are more B's and C's.  Actual
value has uncertainty and several counterfactuals. etc...

Level 0 thinking misses that B could actually be doing something. B
might not just be sitting at home. He could find another job in EA. 

come back to this tomorrow. And then get shit done on DS questiosn to
be asked... Start planning for that. 




## write about spillover effects

## GR

## management case scenario

## 
