---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "The Planning Fallacy"
date:    20-04-2020 
categories: posts
tags: 
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---

finale

## HPMOR

In chapter 6 the planning fallacy HJPEV talks about how he is being
treated like a child. people don't listen to him and people feel that
upholding something else is quite important such as obedience and not
getting shit done. 

At one point harry narrates the study, that starts with people trying
to estimate when they will complete their homework. >50% of the people
don't end up finishing their homework even after predicting it with
99% certainty. The worst case scenario according to >50% of the people
is indistinguishable from 

Since more than half of the people didn't finish the homework when
they said they were 99% sure, reality seems to be worser than the
imagined-worst-case-scenario. This is the clincher. 

So, EY suggests that the way to overcome this, is to look at how long
something took the last time and use that, instead of "intuition". 

It appears that I will always fail at this. Routinely at work we
claim to do X amount of work in 3 weeks. History has never seen us do
that work ever. Either something comes up, or things take more time
than we anticipated. Or we just suck at anticipating how long a task
takes. AT WORk. This is considering that we possibly work on similar
topics, people have been working for years and years. Our best results
are 70-80% And average I think would be around 50-60%. So we finish
50-60% of the work we promise to do in 3 weeks. Routinely. I will
check these numbers tomorrow. 

When doing something new what do you do? For me, today I am trying to
see how long my career research would take. In November I started with
1 month. And today is April and I am again saying end of the month. 

This is for predicting shit and how long things take. But EY seems to
be extrapolating this to life. YOU SUCK AT PREDICTING THE FUTURE for a
new activity, and it appears that no two activities are similar. For
example the career essay is taking forever.  while an essay on TC
still took 3-5 weeks. So everything seems to be different, new. And
there is evidence that we suck at predicting with any reaonable
confidence how long things are going to take. And EY pushes this to
saying that we suck at new things prediction (in average case/ best
case doens't matter), and if there is a case where you really want to
be sure, then bitch you better be "very pessimistic"

Now where does EY's Planning Fallacy leave us at? EY says, if you want
to make sure you have a very very high chance of being correct, then
he says be very pessimitic. 

So to recap... Best-case-scenario and average case scenario are
indistinguishable. 50% sure, 75% sure, and 99% sure they'd complete
their homework, and only 13%, 19%, and 45% actually do. And these are
for homework something people do often. 

So EY says use your prior experience and count on them. This seems to
produce... 50 to 60% results promised are completed as observed in the
case of my work place. Granted it is hard to use such a technique and
even though we are designing things regularly. Every assignment is
still different. Consider the two essays I wrote, career (still
writing about since october last year), and this one on TC 25 days
(didnt' expect), and work place essay about 20 days all despite having
prior information and a grasp on the end. and I usually write essays
for 1 week and these last times it kept taking for ever. I didnot time
box them though. 

It's not too crucial that correctly predict them. But 1 month one
article is too much. I spend a lot of time on uncessary shit but that
is for another day. Here the ship doens't seem to sink if I didn't
predict correctly. Imagine predicting with 13% probability when AI
will come about? In 

"They had suggested, in perfect seriousness, that significant advances
on these problems might be made by ten scientists working together for
two months." haha.

But luckily no serious consequences. The world is still
running. Predicting Climate Change and failing to predict it starts
tomorrow could be catastrophic (replace example)...

Now say I want to predict if I can do X and I don't want to fail at
any cost as the consequences could be grave then i really want to
undershoot. 

so I want to think that I will get a job in the EA. With just one
attempt I am so far that I am not good at "it" and I don't  know how
to improve it as I don't have the feedback. It's one thing to predict
that I will learn a skill in "X years" and it is another thing to
predict the job market will be quite promising and it is yet another
thing to predict that replaceability will be ok and my value is XXX. 

Imagine I am 37 and still don't have job in EA? unlikely due to skill
(Let's claim) but what about the rest. And considering I suck and this
and need to be "very pessimistic", I think a safer bet is to work
towards a DS master. Because there are so many people I who go to
facebook (body, some people), whom I think I am "similar to" atleast
secure a donation job for EAs like JK.  

So I am thinking I should undershoot and see where that takes me. nam
saying. I want to have the option that I stil donate in 300
thousands. My brother does it, My sil does it, Sindhuja does it,
atleeast a high paying job that is not resulting in 4k a year
donations.

But then when we talk about DS, do show promise? But aren't you
supposed to undershoot? I think I have seen quite some people get in
there. There are many things going in favor of it, such as
predictability, there are defined ways of getting better, dozens of
problems in Kaggle (I should ask PH if this is something that makes
sense) to work on and a path i can pursue. Whereas here it is too
random, too much competition. Granted I am going to be looking into
all of this deeply about my assumptions on DS. But as I start I don't
know where I will be going. 

  * [ ]  Are there sound principles here? Identify the top claims?
  
  * [ ] Identify your  value?
  
  * [ ] is it going to be so hard to get in EA?
  
  * [ ] Lot of wasted time. what to do? pandian pan indian?
  
  * [ ] What if DS doesn't work out?

---

  * [x] **Claims**: It is hard to predict how long a task takes.

  * [x] **Claims**: Even if tasks seems similar you still suck at predicting

  * [x] **Claims**: Being optimistic in time it takes for tasks to complete
can be extrapolated to being optimistic in predicting if events will
happen or not.

Apparently. but looking at if I am optimistic.... I think there are a
few examples at least that do not involve time. 

Thinking something will happen and something actually happening are
quite far apart. i was already dreaming about a good chance of making
it through the internship but then I didn't. Very optimistic. could be
informed by how I felt after being rejected.

  * [x] **Claims**: I will be able to get a job in FAABK earning 300k
compensation in 3 years of working in it.

WALMART included. I know people in the US many of them placed in
Microsoft, Intel, Nvidia --> Apple, Paypal. They are all
hardworkers. Didn't go into any exceptional college (UTD) and ended up
at the top companies. People with bachelor's from simple colleges
(Joma tech from Waterloo) already got a DS job after bachelor's and
now earns in the order of 278 k...  and less than 30. This is insane
compensation seems to be happening to people in Google, Apple and the
Gaangutald.  But now that I say this, I feel the need to evaluate if I
will get in. What will decide a higher probability? 

  * [x] **Claims**: I will not get into EA

  * [x] **Claims**: It is dangerous to be stuck in the mechanical design job
that I am at 40 as my donations would barely grow. 


Moving to the next set. Will come back in the finale of the articles. 
