---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "What should I do in an EAO? (backup/duplicate)" 
date:    03-02-2020 
categories: drafts
tags: DP, feedback, examples
permalink: /:title.html
published: true
---

So here I am wondering how to deal with this question. Such a loaded
question. What should I do in an EAO? hmm. So for this I want to
examine what is needed, what I can do and match it or learn it. 

My biggest fear and hesitation to write this article (procrastination)
is from  the thought that I can never really answer this. For example,
how am I going to tradeoff being able to do AI and being able to do
RA. Both I can do with "sufficient" time in my hand, I think, atleast
that is what TOI seems to say. 

And the second is how am I going to identify what is needed? For
example, I feel that at some point it is a guess or a preference, or
as 80khours calls it personal fit. 

I guess beyond a point there is not really much to argue rom. For
examle, my personal fit is "much better" for RA than an AI position,
but if AI engineers are the need of the hour, then I better pick up my
shit and deliver right? But I don't think that is the case. 

There are more variables, when in life I am going to move to these
jobs. Well should that be part of this assignment? how does that
change things. For example, if I think I am going to do things in 6
months, then I can conviniently rule out AI, based on looking at
estimates of how long people prepped for ...  But that can come
later. With this article all I should try to explore is specific
questions. What is constrained? What is the talent and supply. Island
mentality for the win? Let's see.

eawork.club
	
## Talent constrained vs Demand vs supply (Where do people need me)

Why focus on jobs 

- use 80khours jobs
- use survey
- competition for jobs

What should I work on now?

What should I work on in 5 years?

> I am what Gotham needs me to be

In theory I can be what Gotham needs me to be (TOI). I have an idea of
the demand from this survey here. But demand alone doesn't say
much. What is the supply like? If the demand is being met, and me
instead of someone doesn't add "way more value", why am I doing it?

If demand is not being met, and I can do something about it, shouldn't
I pick up the work? 

If demand is not being met and I can't most certainly do the job,
Should I still work on picking up the work?

Are there any more categories? or is it the three that need to be
answered at the end of the section? It looks like it is these three
questions alone. 

### Supply - Demand is the right way to judge


Can you look at the demand data from two years and say that you the
demand has reduced or not?

If in the first year there was a 20 people needed and this year if
only 12 people are needed, then? I would imagine that the demand is
meeting the supply. This could also mean that the demand just
decreased as a result of other actions, but unlikely. It appears that
this is best we can say by looking at demand from 2 years.

In case the demand increased a lot, say 20 people last year, and 32
people this, year, that just says we need more people, nothing about suply


### I have data on demand

Look at GiveWell

Look at survey 80k

Look at jobs in 80k

### I don't have data for Supply

What are EAO's talent constrained by? (according to 80k)

Other than the above I don't have any data? I can ask GiveWell (some
specific question).

Also I know this online site EA forum where I have seen one article 



### EA forum article
**2019**

https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/TpoeJ9A2G5Sipxfit/ea-leaders-forum-survey-on-ea-priorities-data-and-analysis

"The 2019 results were very similar to those of 2018, with few
exceptions. Demand remains high for people with skills in management,
prioritization, and research, as well as experts on government and
policy."


Policy seems to have risen quite a bit since last year again for only
EA as a whole, but not for "My Org".

**2018**

https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#appendix-2-answers-to-open-comment-questions

If I make a claim saying I am going to look at "My Org" details only
as it captures what that that organizations need, then atleast the
orgs listed things that they want:

Operations, management, GR, and MI and hustle bustle type of vague
roles.

Although gov and policy experts are rated high on what EA needs as a
whole.





https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/TpoeJ9A2G5Sipxfit/ea-leaders-forum-survey-on-ea-priorities-data-and-analysis

**Funding constraints** always lower than talent, but close by in the
5 point scale.







**It is pretty clear that Swe engineers are low in need (6 vs 33)**

Where as ML engineers seem to be on par with GR last year and this year!




**Generalist researcher exit opportunities**





All this maybe if you get a job then you are worth

What are the high impact careers?

https://80000hours.org/articles/high-impact-careers/#4-apply-an-unusual-strength-to-a-needed-niche

### 80khours sucks

https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/7bp9Qjy7rCtuhGChs/survey-of-ea-org-leaders-about-what-skills-and-experience#comments

Peter Hurford suggests that the whole discussion of the EA world being
"talent constrained" seems to be bogus as he has had no problem
whatsoever to find people he can hire. But then it stands why these
idiot orgs are writing that they are talent constrained. He seems to
also be questioning the numbers to trade for x employees. And 80khours
seems to be suggesting in this article that that number includes some
extra bullshit () and might not represent the true value of your worth.

I think we need to look at this more clearly. My god! This is just
questioning what I should be doing like dw vs etg, the prime
foundation. "An organisation reporting being ‘talent constrained’ doesn’t
necessarily indicate that they are about to hire a large number of
people." --- WTF
https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/pzEJmc5gRskHjGTak/many-ea-orgs-say-they-place-a-lot-of-financial-value-on

And that if you get a job then you it is probably worth it. Man the
wording infuriates me. Give me motherfucking examples dammit. I don't
trust your fucking reasoning and playing with fucking words. Piss off
will you.

AGB seems to point out that in an already full talent pool with
serious competitiveness, if I go and fight for a spot and then there
are two outcomes. I get the job and the rest of the overflowing pool
(who did not make the cut) go to find other jobs or 

**Rewrite of the discussion on replaceability and saying people are
worth more than what they are**

I think it is a discussion for if I should work in EAO or do DS. Nam saying...



## What all can I do personally (where people need me)

Use examples of others who have got in to judge ok?

ML, AI, Swe, RA, Operations, Strategy

What can I do personally now?

What can I do in 6 months?

What can I do in 2 years?

### One person can apply for many roles

## Start somewhere is a good idea

Mila Griffes?


## Resources

https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/jmbP9rwXncfa32seH/after-one-year-of-applying-for-ea-jobs-it-is-really-really

https://80000hours.org/2018/10/2018-talent-gaps-survey/#who-was-sampled
