---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "How to become GiveWell Material"
date: 02-08-2021
categories: posts
tags: data
permalink: /:title.html
published: true
---

## Entry Question

What are the next concrete steps I could take to become a researcher
in one of the EA organizations.

## Disclaimer

I am "heavily" paraphrasing what people have told me about what
skills are important. Any misunderstanding from my part is my mistake
alone.

## Current level

The following table shows when I applied, which organization I applied
to (and to what position), how far I went in the rounds and the number
of people who qualified to that round.

| Year-mon | Org                        | Rounds passed | "Ranking" |
|----------|----------------------------|---------------|-----------|
| Apr-2020 | CE-Intern                  | S-FTFI-WT     | ~20/~40   |
| Jun-2020 | HLI-Intern                 | S-WT          | -/30      |
| Jun-2021 | OpenPhil-Program-Assistant | S-WT          | -/-       |
| Jun-2021 | Elizabeth-Assistant        | S-FTFI        | 30/30     |
| Jul-2021 | RP-Researcher              | S-WT1-FTFI    | 20/>100   |
| Jul-2021 | FP-Researcher              | S-HRI         | 25/>100   |

S --> Initial Screening
FTFI --> Face to Face Interview
WT --> Work Task
WT1 --> First Work Task
HRI --> HR Interview

CE --> Charity Entrepreneurship 
HLI --> Happier Lives Institute 
RP --> Rethink Priorities 
FP --> Founder's Pledge

## How to get to the potential options?

1. It appears that I can look at what successful people (who are
   "similar to me") did.
   
   "Similar to me" meaning, people without a Harvard degree, people
   without an economics PhD, people who at some point of time didn't
   get into EA organizations and then later managed to get in.
   
2. I could offer my services as an intern, or as an assistant to
   people who are already in EA organizations. And that way perhaps I
   can find out more about the sort of work being done and/or the sort
   of "skills" I would actually need.
   
3. I could ask people in the business "what steps I need to take" to
   become "GiveWell/OPP/RP material"

## What did the successful people do

A while back I asked a question to the EA community about how people
who got rejected in EA organizations, "made it" eventually. And the
following section is based on the answers from [that question in the
EA forum](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/hcdwSvGntCDJxCuqx/examples-of-people-who-didn-t-get-into-ea-in-the-past-but).

It appears that the successful people **wrote a lot in the EA forum**
prior to getting into an EA organization. As shown in the table below,
all of the people who answered my question have at least a few posts
on the EA forum before they got into an EA organization. I on the
other hand wrote one post on 'Talent Constrainedness of EA' which was
really bad (wherein I butchered concrete thinking and massively got
confused with definitions. Thanks to an STM for pointing it out).

| Name              | Org | Posts before EA org | Total Karma | Comments |
|-------------------|-----|---------------------|-------------|----------|
| Me                | N.A | 1                   | 154         | Baseline |
| Peter Wildeford   | RP  | ~35                 | 7k+         | 2017-Jan |
| Saulius           | RP  | 3/18                | 3k+         | 2018-Oct |
| Gregory Lewis     | FHI | 9/17                | 3k+         | -        |
| Micheal St. Jules | CE  | ~10/22              | 1k+         | 2016     |
| Micheal Arid      | CA  | 7/76                | 7k+         | 2020-jan |

RP--> Rethink Priorities, CA--> Convergence Analysis, FHI--> Future Of
Humanities Institute, CE--> Charity Entrepreneurship.

Some people have made **"thoughtful" and "intensely researched posts
on the EA forum"**, after being rejected by an EA organization and
before getting into a Researcher position in an EA
organization. Saulius, for example, after not making it to ACE as a
full-timer (after his internship there), published 2 "well researched"
articles, where one of them even made it to [ACE's Blog](https://animalcharityevaluators.org/blog/is-the-percentage-of-vegetarians-and-vegans-in-the-u-s-increasing/) and the
other [on EA Forum](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/gGiiktK69R2YY7FfG/fish-used-as-live-bait-by-recreational-fishermen) (with 50+ karma points). Apparently this
sparked the interest amongst Rethink Priorities' recruiter to invite
him for an interview. **Note:** One has to also do well in the tasks
and interviews to get into the organization.

Another example is Micheal St. Jules who did not make it in 2016 to
ACE or GiveWell. Before getting his internship at Charity
Entrepreneurship in 2020, he had won an "EA forum prize" for his post
on [Biases](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/gYPT6pGwPWL5YywTK/biases-in-our-estimates-of-scale-neglectedness-and) (which grossed an awesome 90+ karma points; contrast
that to the 30 points I got for my Talent-Constrained post 🤦).

In addition to "making thoughtful posts", some people also wrote
**criticisms, on research** put forth by EA organizations. Both
[Saulius](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/hcdwSvGntCDJxCuqx/examples-of-people-who-didn-t-get-into-ea-in-the-past-but?commentId=oxQ3djuMwpZCCdft9) and [Micheal St. Jules](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/hcdwSvGntCDJxCuqx/examples-of-people-who-didn-t-get-into-ea-in-the-past-but?commentId=YG4u35WiZCFnQXLC3), seem to have been providing
feedback voluntarily to the organizations they ended up joining for
internships.

Some other people seemed to have **applied like crazy** and eventually
made it. Micheal Arid applied to ~30 organization positions before
getting in eventually into 2 organizations. He suspects that doing all
these interviews might have helped him understand what the interviews
required him to do. He shares some of the things he thinks might have
helped him [here](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/2eEn8BHW69StPgtCi/how-have-you-become-more-or-less-engaged-with-ea-in-the-last?commentId=v5jwtvF29XoQyHzTw) where the main point seems to be that he read and
consumed "practically everything EA" (Less wrong articles, books
recommended by top EA people, all EA conference videos, etc.). He now
has a staggering 7k karma points in just 3 years. The most awesome
thing about Arid is that in 3 years he went from ~28 rejections to a
Future Of Humanities Institute Researcher.

In Summary, writing "many well researched posts" on the EA forum,
voluntarily providing feedback on the research to EA organizations,
applying to more than 20 organizations, and consuming a ton of EA
content, seem like good things to do.

## Offering services as an intern or assistant

Another way of learning how to become an EA Researcher is probably
offering services as an assistant to a researcher or taking up an
internship in EA organizations.

Saulius seems to suggest that after his first internship (at Animal
Charity Evaluator) "[he knew what sort of articles would be
useful](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/hcdwSvGntCDJxCuqx/examples-of-people-who-didn-t-get-into-ea-in-the-past-but?commentId=AiZ96d7trvcBh9jMg)". He also gained relevant connections, with whom he
collaborated on two articles which eventually got him noticed at the
Recruiters of Rethink Priorities.

Another example is [Nicole Zok](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicole-zok-239219115/), who started in GiveWell as a
conversation notes writer and grew to the level of a Research Analyst
in 2 years at GiveWell.
   
## Asking people what steps/skills to take 

I asked people who are Researchers in EA organizations, the following: "What
steps could I/someone take to become GiveWell/Rethink Priorities/Open
Philanthropy material?" or "What skills do I need, to become
GiveWell/Rethink Priorities/Open Philanthropy material?"

For this I interacted (through direct messages or video call) with
[Peter Wildeford](https://www.linkedin.com/in/peterhurford8/), [Micheal St. Jules](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelstjules/), DW (Researcher at a
prominent EA org), AL (Junior Research at a prominent EA org) and ST
(Senior Researcher at a prominent EA org). The following are the steps
that they have suggested (and I paraphrased). More information on who
said what is in the appendix. I have also (for lack of a better way)
sorted the skills below by number of people suggesting it.

- Read and write independent research (>=2)  
- Practice making cost-effectiveness estimates (>=2)  
  - Practice discounting for various uncertainties (e.g., what is the
	effect size for the target population compared to the one described
	in the paper) (>=2)  
- Read social science papers and identify the strengths and weaknesses
  based on data quality, methodology, internal and external validity,
  assumptions (>=2)  
- Do MIT courses on GH&P  
- Be good in Statistics and Causal inference (do courses) (1)  
- Be good in writing conversation notes (1)  
- Be good at quickly evaluating interventions (1)   
- Forecasting (1)  

**Note**: The above skills are not representative of the view of the
all EA organizations (as the sample people were not selected
randomly). But amidst that uncertainty and the lack of a better way to
get this knowledge, I accept the above information and will act on it.

## How to get "better" at skills

**Reading academic papers**

When thinking about something like reading academic research and
commenting on the [internal validity](https://web.archive.org/save/https://www.verywellmind.com/internal-and-external-validity-4584479), I can make comments all day,
but I don't think there is any point unless I get feedback. Am I doing
it right or am I doing it wrong, and how could I do better! And if I
need to send my work to somebody in order to get feedback then that
takes weeks. Is it possible to get faster feedback?

[Here](http://pradeep90.github.io/ben-franklin-practice.html) is a great blueprint on Deliberate Practice called the Ben
Franklin method. Basically, the author wants to improve his
writing. He takes an example paragraph from someone he reveres (Paul
Graham in this case and his post on "Schlep Blindness"). The author
makes some notes on a paragraph and then writes his own version of
"Schlep Blindness". Next he evaluates his and Paul's performance
against certain dimensions (such as "do the sentences begin with
subjects and verbs?" etc.). This way he gets feedback on how good he
is compared to Paul, and what he can do to improve his performance. A
key aspect about Deliberate Practice is that the practice can be
repeated a lot. Paul has written more than 100 essays which means the
author can pretty much practice like this forever.

When thinking about "reading academic papers and commenting on say
their internal validity", a similar approach might work well, I
think. The Deliberate Practice would thus involve:

1. Internal validity comments from someone who is revered (aka 'the
   reference'),

	For this, Salius's posts mentioned above ([1](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/gGiiktK69R2YY7FfG/fish-used-as-live-bait-by-recreational-fishermen) and [2](https://animalcharityevaluators.org/blog/is-the-percentage-of-vegetarians-and-vegans-in-the-u-s-increasing/)), High
	karma posts in the EA forum, and the huge pool of [Intervention
	reports from GiveWell](https://www.givewell.org/research/other-charity-reviews) (and also [this](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TG7WRU85p1SEjir-5qvIEg4kVG9a4Lnzdgwcub8aKSs/edit#gid=0)), can be used.

	Each of these posts/reports cites many academic papers, and also
    has some commentary on internal validity of that respective paper.

2. My comments on internal validity for those very same academic
   papers.

3. Dimensions to evaluate against,

	[Here](https://web.archive.org/web/20210807183445/https://www.verywellmind.com/internal-and-external-validity-4584479) there is a list on what constitutes good internal
    validity, such as "low attrition rate", "Random sample
    collection", "Randomization of participants to treatment and
    control groups", "has there been experimental manipulation" etc.
	
The plan is to use these dimensions to evaluate the internal validity
commentary of both my comments and the reference. This way instant
feedback can be obtained after evaluating each paper and it is
possible to see what the reference solution looks like as a way on how
the commentary should be done.
	
I'll admit that it's hard for me to tell for sure if I am evaluating
the dimensions correctly. For example, when I think of the dimension
"experimental manipulation", most likely I wont spot it. But there is
also the reference to compare with. Hope this is good enough.
	
The same idea can probably be used for many of the skills listed such
as "reading academic papers and commenting on external validity,
methodologies, data collection" and perhaps even "quickly evaluating
interventions". However, the dimensions to evaluate the work needs to
be identified. I think there should be some general links on these I
can find online and use them (Will be done later).

**Cost-Effectiveness Analysis**:

There is another model of Deliberate Practice called the "case method"
(also the "chess method"). In chess, isolation of an aspect seems a
little out of hand, as key aspects are probably hard to find. But,
with chess, thousands of books on different positions, different games
have been published. The Deliberate Practice routine would be to look
at a particular position and choose a move and compare it to the move
chosen by the master ('the reference'). Followed by analysis.

For cost-effectiveness practice, I think this method will serve well
as I am not sure how to isolate different aspects of it. I would in
this case, look at an intervention report and for each cited article,
predict a factor in the cost-effectiveness analysis. And then
immediately compare with the actual cost-effectiveness analysis. And
repeat.

The cost-effectiveness practice session would involve the following:

1. Obtaining content that is revered ('the reference'). This can be
   obtained from GiveWell. There are enough intervention reports and
   associated Cost-Effectiveness estimates such as [this](https://www.givewell.org/charities/DMI) and more
   are also [available here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TG7WRU85p1SEjir-5qvIEg4kVG9a4Lnzdgwcub8aKSs/edit#gid=0).
  
2. Reading intervention reports and predicting factors/values for the
   cost-effectiveness analysis.
   
3. Comparing the actual vs prediction for each factor.

I think this practice would also cover "how to discount for
uncertainties" as we are going to be doing the discounting in the
cost-effectiveness analysis.

**Writing/Doing Independent Research (with "good reasoning
transparency")**

For getting better at writing independent research, first I need to
know what good research looks like. I suspect the "concrete thinking
practice routine" will help here. Concrete Thinking is about thinking
in terms of claims and checking them with at least one example. In
[this post](http://agent18.github.io/dp-subject-predicate-identify-pattern.html), I start with looking at text by someone (me,
80000hours or EA forum post). I look at each claim that is made, and
find an example for it. I check this to the best of my abilities
across dimensions such as "Does the example given match the definition
of the claim", "Is it possible even to give an example" etc.

A limitation of this method is that it is completely up to my own
discretion to note if I am right or wrong. To counter this it is often
useful to send it to a knowledgeable friend for feedback
("longer-feedback loop"). This way, I do have my immediate feedback
and I also check how good this feedback is, over some time.

I hope to apply these principles to "writing independent research" as
well. For this I would need some text to evaluate across some
dimensions. For "good independent research" text, (as mentioned above)
I can look at Salius's posts ([1](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/gGiiktK69R2YY7FfG/fish-used-as-live-bait-by-recreational-fishermen) and [2](https://animalcharityevaluators.org/blog/is-the-percentage-of-vegetarians-and-vegans-in-the-u-s-increasing/)), High karma posts in
the EA forum, and the huge pool of [Intervention reports from
GiveWell](https://www.givewell.org/research/other-charity-reviews) (and also [this](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TG7WRU85p1SEjir-5qvIEg4kVG9a4Lnzdgwcub8aKSs/edit#gid=0)).

For dimensions across which I measure the success of such posts, I
hope I can pick up points from [good reasoning transparency](https://www.openphilanthropy.org/reasoning-transparency),
"[how we evaluate a study](https://blog.givewell.org/2012/08/23/how-we-evaluate-a-study/)", and some notes by [Micheal Arid](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/J7PsetipHFoj2Mv7R/notes-on-ea-related-research-writing-testing-fit-learning)
on high quality research. 

Now using the text and dimensions I can evaluate "how good an article
is". I can thus evaluate how the greats do it. I can also do the same
for posts I have written and see how much I fall short on these
dimensions.

After doing a "few" examples of this practice, I expect to write short
pieces of research and check it against the above dimensions. As for
the "longer-feedback loop" I can also post these pieces to EA forum or
ask specific feedback from particular people of the EA community.

**Statistics, Causal inference and GH&P courses**

As for GH&P, a research analyst from a prominent EA organization (AL)
told me that she has done [these courses](https://micromasters.mit.edu/dedp/) from MIT in person and
that she recommends doing them online. Some of these courses are by
Nobel Laureates (e.g., Esther Duflo teaches [Data Analyses for Social
Scientists](https://www.edx.org/course/data-analysis-for-social-scientists)). I think I will take at least one of these courses
(for lack of time) ~~to get introduced to the "framework of doing
research for GH&P"~~ as it seems like it will be useful.

For statistics I don't want to plan anything specific now. If I am
going to be reading academic papers anyway, then I will know what sort
of statistics I would need to do, and I hope I can prepare from there
on.

As for causal inference, I really don't know what I can do. I shall
check with the person who suggested it.

**Writing conversation notes**

For writing conversation notes of talks, and to make a Deliberate
Practice session out of it, I would need conversation audio or
transcripts, and the conversation notes, from a source we
revere. Unfortunately, [conversation notes](https://www.givewell.org/research/conversations) like these, only have
the final notes and not the transcripts of the conversation.

I can *maybe* extract dimensions from several of these conversation
notes. Following which, I can practice on my own on other EA talks on
Youtube and check against the dimensions. Perhaps I should reach out
to someone say from GiveWell, to give me feedback ("longer-feedback
loop"). Perhaps!

**Forecasting**

I don't think I will do anything about this now. Should I? I don't
know. I'd rather focus now on writing independent research on GH&P or
animal welfare.

However a quick look at [Metaculus](https://www.metaculus.com/accounts/profile/100912/) shows that there are tons of
past forecasts and future forecasts to practice on. Smell 'Deliberate
Practice', anybody?

## Other things I could do

- Consume a "lot" of EA content (as done by [Micheal Arid](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/2eEn8BHW69StPgtCi/how-have-you-become-more-or-less-engaged-with-ea-in-the-last?commentId=v5jwtvF29XoQyHzTw)).  
- There are [Volunteering opportunities](https://www.animaladvocacycareers.org/skilled-volunteering) via Animal Advocacy
  Careers.  
- There are opportunities to [provide feedback like the one Charity
  Entrepreneurship organizes.](https://www.charityentrepreneurship.com/volunteer.html)  
- I could organize EA discussion groups in places where there is
  feedback is missing.  
  
## My plan to get better

So far it is clear am not already GiveWell/Rethink Priorities/Open
Philanthropy Material from my applications. So it seems like I need to
do something to get better than I am now, before I apply.

So I propose to work on the things people from EA organizations have
suggested, i.e., to start with practicing reading academic papers and
making comments on various aspects, followed by working on
cost-effectiveness analysis practice, and slowly climb my way to
writing independent research on the EA forum (2 posts at least).

On the side I want to do one course from MIT on GH&P and continue
consuming content (e.g., try reading Eliezer Yudkowsky's series for
example or taking apart top forum posts in 'concrete thinking').

After spending a few months (3-6 months) on the above, I hope to
re-apply while maybe providing feedback on the works of other
organizations and also maybe look for volunteering opportunities
and/or internships.

Perhaps one thing to do would be to get feedback on this plan from
someone like Micheal Arid ([who can be reached on a call here](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/users/michaela)) or
the EA forum. He is the guy who went from 28 rejections to a
researcher at Future Of Humanities Institute in 3 years. Wow!

**How sure am I that I know what skills to train?**

I am "sort of sure" about the skills I need to work on, as it came
from the mouths of some of the people in the business. Looking at
people like Saulius and Micheal St. Jules, and the time it took them
to blossom, I think 1-2 years seems "realistic" before I get any
internship or a full-time job in EA organizations as a Researcher. I
guess!

## Appendix: What did people do to get into EA

Peter Wildeford worked for over 5 years doing EA research by himself
after which he was able to co-found an EA org. One thing Peter seems
to have done is write a lot of Forum posts (while "aiming to emulate
good [reasoning transparency](https://www.openphilanthropy.org/reasoning-transparency)" and the style of highly up-voted
posts). He has a very high karma of 7000 points. (Contrast that to me
with 154 points). He has written around 38 posts in the EA forum
before becoming Co-founder at Rethink Priorities. 

Saulius seems to have started of with an internship in ACE after which
it didn't convert to a job. A year later he works for Rethink
Priorities. He was rejected by other organizations too. Meanwhile with
his experience and connections from ACE, he wrote two "intensely
researched" articles (one [published on ACE website](https://animalcharityevaluators.org/blog/is-the-percentage-of-vegetarians-and-vegans-in-the-u-s-increasing/) and the [other
on EA forum](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/gGiiktK69R2YY7FfG/fish-used-as-live-bait-by-recreational-fishermen)), which seemed to have grabbed the attention of
recruiters at least. He also has a high karma in the EA forum of about
3000 points. Prior to getting into Rethink Priorities he had written 3
posts. **Note:** One has to also do well in the tasks and interviews
to get into the organization.

Gregory Lewis applied for a research role in GWWC and got rejected
back in 2015. Since mid-2017 he works for FHI. In the meantime he
continued to work as a Public Health Doctor and also appears to have
been writing on the forum. He suspects his current role at FHI was
"mainly because" of his public health background than his "forum
ouevre". He also has a high karma 3000 points unsurprisingly.

Micheal St. Jules applied to GIVEWELL and ACE in 2016 and didn't get
the roles (when he was new to EA). In the recent past he started
working with his local EA group, started commenting and writing in the
EA forum which was still not enough. He got an internship in Charity
Entrepreneurship, following an EA forum prize, attending EA global and
meeting people from Charity Entrepreneurship. He has over 1000 points
and currently is a visiting fellow (internship) at Rethink Priorities.

Micheal Arid got ~28 rejections in 2019 before getting 2 job
offers. After a year of experience he was able to apply for 11
positions and got 4. In the mean time he seems to have written many
posts on EA forum. He shares some of the things he thinks might have
helped him [here](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/2eEn8BHW69StPgtCi/how-have-you-become-more-or-less-engaged-with-ea-in-the-last?commentId=v5jwtvF29XoQyHzTw) where the main point seems to be that he read or
consumed "practically everything" (Less wrong articles, books
recommended top EA people, all EA conference videos, etc..). He now
has a staggering 7k karma points in just 3 years. The most awesome
thing about Arid is that in 3 years he made it to FHI. :)

In summary,   
- write "well" (high karma posts) in the EA forum and "a lot".
- "Consume EA content"
- Attend EA global

## Appendix: Suggestions on skills/steps to be taken


**Peter**:

Peter basically told me what's written [here](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/J7PsetipHFoj2Mv7R/notes-on-ea-related-research-writing-testing-fit-learning?commentId=nhkXnBWcT39ozx9S5).

Peter Wildeford suggests that the best thing applicants can do to
improve their odds of being a successful researcher is to **read and
write independent research** for the EA forum with [good reasoning
transparency](https://www.openphilanthropy.org/reasoning-transparency#Example_of_GiveWell_charity_reviews) and get feedback from the community. In addition he
says it may also be good to **get relevant credentials** to perform
research at such organizations e.g., "top **forecaster** on Metaculus
or Good Judgement Open".

**DW is a Researcher at prominent EA org**  
<!-- David Moss at Rethink Priorities -->

DW is pursuing an economics PhD and was part-timing at a prominent EA
org. His suggestions were:

- Be able to "read" social science papers (academic papers in Lancet,
  Nature or Science) and "comment on and understand" their
  methodologies, data quality, internal external validity, weaknesses
  and understanding assumptions.
- Have a solid understanding of statistics and causal inference
- knowledge how to discount for trustworthiness of a paper

And perhaps consider the following steps to get there:

- Consider getting a relevant degree 
- Can do online courses for statistics and causal inference, textbooks
  and material where you have lots of questions and feedback.
- Start a reading group where you can discuss with other peers about
  academic papers for example.  

**Micheal St. Jules suggests the following:**

Micheal St. Jules is currently a Research Fellow at Rethink
Priorities. He suggested the following:

- Try starting with an internship (instead of a full-time job).
- Provide feedback on the research of organizations, publicly or by asking for
  opportunities to review unpublished work.
- Do a literature review or Cost-Effectiveness analysis on some
  EA-related topic (like that of [Saulius](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/users/saulius)'s posts) and post on EA
  forum
- Sign up to organizations that allow you to be a reviewer of their research
  (e.g., Charity Entrepreneurship seems to have some [opportunities
  now](https://www.charityentrepreneurship.com/volunteer.html)).

For "Data Analysis type" roles:
- For survey related roles use Mixed-Models and reproduce "EA Survey
  Analysis" and find other insights from the data. 
- There is another survey data set which needs analysis, and he can
  help me with the getting the data.

**AL is a Jr. Researcher at a prominent EA org**   
<!-- Alicia Wang from GIVEWELL's feedback -->

The Researcher job at GiveWell-type-organizations involves trying to
gauge evidence, piecing together poor evidence, and working with
open-ended questions. She thinks it is a "good idea" to practice with
the [different reports on GiveWell](https://www.givewell.org/research) (look in ["Prioritized List of
Programs"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TG7WRU85p1SEjir-5qvIEg4kVG9a4Lnzdgwcub8aKSs/edit#gid=0) and "[other charity reviews](https://www.givewell.org/research/other-charity-reviews)"), the following skills:

- Understanding academic research ([how we evaluate a study](https://blog.givewell.org/2012/08/23/how-we-evaluate-a-study/)), the
  strengths and weaknesses and guessing the effect size for the target
  population.
  
- Cost-Effectiveness analysis (e.g., "simpler" Cost-Effectiveness
  estimates such as [this](https://www.givewell.org/charities/DMI) and more are [available](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TG7WRU85p1SEjir-5qvIEg4kVG9a4Lnzdgwcub8aKSs/edit#gid=0)).
  
- Communicating in a transparent way probably what is promising and
  what you are uncertain about (again GiveWell reports show how it is
  done and there are at least [61 of them](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TG7WRU85p1SEjir-5qvIEg4kVG9a4Lnzdgwcub8aKSs/edit#gid=0)).
  
- She has done courses from MIT in person and said she "benefited"
  from doing courses [like this](https://micromasters.mit.edu/dedp/) (available in edX).
  
- Also the ability to state the next steps, communicate clearly the
uncertainty during work trials, is important. This will be very
important also in the work tasks at GiveWell.

**ST is a Sr. Researcher at a prominent EA org**
<!-- Stephan Guyenet -->

Skills:

- Ability to read Cochrane meta analysis, literature pubmed, scholar,
  econ papers  
- Cost-Effectiveness (botec --> back of the envelope calculations)  
- Doing science with uncertainty  
- Quickly evaluating interventions (how many people have the disease
  and how much would it cost per person)  
- writing conversation notes  
- Critical thinking and communication in writing.  

And perhaps take the following steps,  
- Practice writing [conversation notes](https://www.givewell.org/research/conversations) like these, although the
  recordings are not available, try to emulate the style  
- There seems to be lot of material on GiveWell website which I can
  use to perhaps train on.  

**Summary**

- read and write independent research  
	- Write in EA forum with "good reasoning transparency" and get
	feedback from the community. (Peter)  
	- write reviews, Provide feedback on research of organizations (e.g.,
	Charity Entrepreneurship seems to have some [opportunities
	now](https://www.charityentrepreneurship.com/volunteer.html). (Micheal St. Jules)   
  
- Practice doing Cost-effectiveness estimates (Micheal St. Jules, AL
  and ST)  

- Forecasting  
  - Get relevant credentials in Metaculus or Good Judgement Open (Peter)

- Read Social Science papers  
  - from Lancet, Nature or Science and "reflect" on methodologies,
    data quality, internal and external validity, weaknesses and
    assumptions. (DW and AL)
  - Cochrane meta analysis, pubmed, scholar and econ papers

- Practice discounting for uncertainty  
  - discounting for trustworthiness of a paper. (DW)
  - guessing the effect size for the target population from the papers (AL)
  - doing science with all the uncertainty i.e., you will not have the
    values you need (ST)
	
- Be "good" in Statistics and causal inference (DW)
  - Do online course to get solid understanding of it. 
  
- Get a relevant degree in Economics for example (DW)
- communication
  - Write with "good reasoning transparency" (Peter)
  - Communicating in a transparent way (AL)
 
- Critical thinking (ST)

- writing conversation notes (ST)

- quickly evaluating interventions (ST)

## Statistics

5k words  
40 hours  
\>4hrs per day on average

<!-- ## Todo -->

<!-- - ~~fix the Deliberate Practice section (morning 1 - 2 hrs)~~ -->
<!-- - ~~conclusion write~~ -->
<!-- - ~~fix appendix (let's do it now.)~~ -->
<!-- - ~~re-write each sentence~~ -->
<!-- - ~~finish the final editings~~ -->
<!-- - change to cost-effectiveness -->
<!-- - check final print on github if there are strike throughs -->
<!-- - ~~spell check~~ -->
