## Entry question

Should I do a masters now and if so why and what all do I need?

## Introduction

Someone I know who has been working in the US, has a house of 3
stories with his partner, 2m dollar in savings (stocks etc.), and a
salary of around 300k-400k TC in California. He is an electronics
engineer. Now in Apple. Just last year he got a bonus (for doing well)
of 100k stocks (vested in 4 years) and apparently every year that
could be the case. 

This is sick! 

According to my previous essay I need to maximize my chances of making
it to the US so that I can one day be as sick as these mfers. I really
have to get crazy earnings. 

One way is to go to the US through an L1. I really don't understand
this way, I know people who have done it, but it seems really hard on
how to approach this, I need to interview people about how they did it
and what is their advice and meanwhile I also need to keep getting
great. 

Another way is to do a masters later after 2 years of experience. 


The hurdles I would need to cross are to 
- get "any" masters in Data Analyst, Data Science?
- get any job that does h1b sponsorship (the hardest part and the only
  part which really hard)
- get h1b in 3 years (chance)
- Do leetcode or whatever and transfer to a top job in a couple of
  years. (possible)

Small sidebar: There seems to be many "mediocre" people who have
grinded for 6 months who have gotten into FAANG. (like this [Saravana
Stores Legend](https://www.teamblind.com/post/How-mediocre-engineer-got-MicrosoftLinkedin-offers-using-Blind-tpiFgfbk), [WBL](https://web.archive.org/web/20211024120505/https://www.teamblind.com/post/How-mediocre-engineer-got-MicrosoftLinkedin-offers-using-Blind-tpiFgfbk)).
  
## What to explore

I think with this essay I want to explore masters now vs masters 2
years later. and perhaps also the possibility of getting through the
L1 route. 

## My fears

Not getting a job after masters?


Perhaps it is better to do masters in 2 years than now? My assumption
here is that I will have a job with experience. 



**Is it better to do masters now or try to get exp and then do
masters  2years later**?

Interview people. Karan Pappala tells me he knows many people who have
done one year masters.

Body says there are Stem courses even for 1 year.

Brother says to come over, and we'll figure it out, that there are
many contacts, I can work hard and we will get somewhere with that. 

I am 31 now. Will be atleast 32, 1-2 years of masters (33-34) then
job... It's ok bro.. you have some exp, perhaps you can count on it.

Instead of at 33, with 1-2years of masters (34-35), then job. 

I mean, if I get a proper job, it might still make sense. might not be
too bad. 

But what are the chances of that happening?

## What do I need for what?

I am not getting any jobs, being shunned down for lack of
experience. I don't know if things will change because of a degree
here, however people in ASML have told me abou thave the right
degree. 

**Claim**: I think it is better to have a degree for getting a job?



Should I do masters now or later?

Older people don't do masters? And there is no real guarentee that I
am going to get a job? The only job i can get is with really small
startups (~~who pay like shit~~)



Speak to people in universities that I have a chance with, to
understand percentage of getting in?

Understand the physical things I need to do?
- toefil


I think it is clear, lets start after the break


## paradigm

- What are the risks?
- What do I need to do?
- what happens if I fail?
- whom to reach out to for feedback


## Options

1. start with preparing to go on a masters ASAP (1 year/ 6 months)
   
	- perhaps my ajithness can allow me stay in the US for a few more
      months to search for a job in case I loose my job

2. get a job in Data Science/Data Analyst and go to masters in 2 years

3. Wait for L1

	- no idea how to pursue this
	- adv: GC if i pull it off (in 5 years or so)
	- But so what if i have GC in the first place? whatt if I can
      still stay in the centry and find a job? # detch?


## Mission Master

### **What do I need to do**

1. 2year or 1 year masters?

2. GRE? 

	Also takes time, but bro is saying many unis don't even require it.

3. SOP(1x) LOR (3x)

	Borrow someone elses and try to use it, by far this will be the
	hardest :(

4. Find unis that are a match for me and apply (find our their reqs)

5. Find Win stats from different universities, what is the thing I
   would need to do? what are experiences of people who lost?
   
6. Interview people and their experiences of people "similar" (looking
   at same uni) to me. 
   
   - Shashaank Maiya
   - people on linkedin
   - also brother to help with contacts
   - ask body and malu for conducts
   - also ask sindhu and karan pappala for conducts
   

6. Should I still bother about changing my job? LOR strategy depends
   on this

	I am thinking perhaps I can ask my people in ASML to write
	LOR. Perhaps Jerry, Perhaps Niels, Perhaps my homie Jens who is
	probably going to give me a steller review in FEB.

7. Understand the basics of OPT, STEM, while looking for unis

P.S
Man writing down is so awesome... the overwhelmingness of events is gone


I never really thought abotu doing masters now already? Why I waited
for so long to get do this, think about this is really mad!

Sometimes I feel like shit atleast I did a while back on friday, when
there was no option for me to be that guy?

I also didn't really want to explore the option of doing masters in 2
years. It was just an empty idea which I was afraid to explore. The
fact that I was probably not going to find a good job 

Best of all don't be afraid. People are with you. your "vision" is
noble, you will get all the help you needen sie!

### Whom to reach out to for help

- brother,

- EA group on Software tech and other

- random people on linkedin from said university

- Peter Wildeford

### Risks

1. I don't get a job?

	I have to come back to NETHERLANDS and figure things out here.

2. I have massive debt?

	I want to have an honest convo with bro, about giving back only if I
	get a job. I will have or bring 40k$ and will that be enough, can you
	help me with it?

	I can't go back with debt to Netherlands.
	
	What if the answer is yes or no? Go for reduced fees option for
    studying.
	

1. 
