---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Lifetime Impact Calculations EA"
date:    10-08-2021
categories: posts
tags: 
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---

## Entry Question

How much life time value donations you can do by being a ~~EA~~ GiveWell
researcher from now to the rest of your life.

What is the total *<u>estimated</u>* impact of being a ~~EA~~ GiveWell
life time researcher for 35 years in `$`s donated?

## Estimate of impact

| Variables                                                |              |
|----------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Total amount moved in 2015 by GW                         | $110,000,000 |
| Growth rate                                              | 2%-4%    ?   |
| Counterfactual contribution of GW                        | 37% ?        |
|                                                          |              |
| Total amount attributed to Researcher as % of co-founder | 10%       ?  |
| No. of co-founders                                       | 9          ? |
| Growth Rate Attributed to the Researcher                 | 8%         ? |
| Counterfactual contribution of Researcher                | 5%-15%       |
|                                                          |              |
| Additional Counterfactual ETG Base                       | $3,500       |
| Growth Rate Attributed to Additional Counterfactual ETG  | 3%           |
|                                                          |              |
| Start Year                                               | 34           |

**Note on Counterfactuals and not using shapely**

https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/XHZJ9i7QBtAJZ6byW/shapley-values-better-than-counterfactuals?commentId=WCYzmRY9uKZg2Zny7#comments

> If the others have already committed to their part in a decision,
> the counterfactual value approach looks better.

It's not a together system...

**Total amount moved by GiveWell in 2015**

What does it mean to move money?

GiveWell ["moved"](https://www.givewell.org/about/impact#MoneyMovedDefinition) according to them [~120m `$` in 2015.](https://blog.givewell.org/2016/05/13/givewells-money-moved-web-traffic-2015/)

| Year | Money |
|------|-------|
| 2011 | 5m    |
| 2012 | 10m   |
| 2013 | 16m   |
| 2014 | 28m   |
| 2015 | 120m  |
| 2016 | 118m  |
| 2017 | 149m  |
| 2018 | 161m  |
| 2019 | 172m  |

Links --> [^1]
Minus what they cost in 2015?


But GiveWell also costs money? how much does it cost?

pull financials from 2015 and log it and then make a growth rate for
that as well?

**Growth Rate GiveWell**

120m in 2015 to 172m in 2019. 4 years 52m growth. [Compound Annual
Growth rate](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/cagr.asp) is 9.5%.



**GiveWell Counterfactuals**

Actual scenario:  

{:.tablestyletwo}
| Impact | Scenario WITH | Scenario WITHOUT | Difference |
|--------|---------------|------------------|------------|
| 2007   | GiveWell      | -                |            |
| 2010   |               | GiveWell-like    |            |
| 2011   |               |                  |            |

There is so much cash going to AMF and 

Ask yourself what would you expect to see?

What is the current scenario, the scenario is about givewell being
there to direct the funds with it's godforsaken research. If GIVEWELL
was not there

Describe the actual and the counterfactual scenario? 3-7 years later
other orgs would come by. 

Comes to about 35% (and maybe greater but I don't take it into account
the effect of a displacement chain) per year, also did in my last
try. Which is soothing to know they are the same as I started.

**Total attributed to Researcher**

What about no action taken on most of the dollars? once it is set in
motion then it is not attributed to you

This ones easy all work has been done earlier. ?? show GIVEWELL
estimates and ask for other estimates.

GiveWell estimates it to be 10% of a co-founder and with 9
co-founders. If I think that is going to the estiamte from today, or
even that day, I think it is quite wrong.

In 2015 there were [21 people](https://web.archive.org/web/20150601044318/http://www.givewell.org/about/people) and 10 board members (not sure how
much work they do) but then let's round it to 25 people. It was then
estimated that this amounted to 9 co-founder equivalents with
considering a 1st year analyst "valued" at 10% of a co-founder. 

This essentially says that in 2015 an entry level researcher was worth
`10%/9 = 1.1%` of the "contribution" generated by GiveWell. That seems
like a huge undertaking considering that there are 24 other
people. This calculation seems to be saying that an entry level
researcher is 4 times less contributing than an average
researcher. Let's be clear this is an estimate. Let's take this as
gospel. (Also 1 co-founder is roughly 3 times better the average?)

The thing is this was in 2015. Let's even assume that this is ok and
today we have about 41 staff and about 6 board of directors. Let's
round that out to 44 contributing people. In this case the average
staff contributes to about 2.3%. 4 times less of this is 0.6%.

The max increase seems to be 7% (co-founder level). I would say a
junior level researcher gets to co-founder level in 10-15 years (13
years)?

**Growth Rate Researcher**

Assuming that we start with 0.6% and can go say 3 times that of the
average (7%).

Cumulative rate thus becomes 19% in 14 years (10-20)years let's say
one becomes co-founder level), however it's so sensitive that you
change co-founder to 4 times, it only becomes higher (23%), and I
plateau after that let's say.

Need to take that into account. 



After so many years I expect to be atleast? and max... and then take
the GM of it.

**Counterfactual contribution**

What if all EA impact is not the same, what if it is the same?

Why will the guy be european (does the 3.5 k matter what if it is 0?)

this is also easy, already written, check for some issues with the
content???

5% -15% counting on the fact that there exists something called DP. +
the typical european guy.

## Tomor

State what you are uncertain about and what are the sensitive parts
(perturb them). 

Let's try to send this out tomorrow. Common pandiya dhikaatho.

And try to come up with how to do lifetime quick calculations.

**Other flow through effects**?


## Actual vs counterfactual

**Actual situation**: There is givewell sending money from 2007

**Counterfactual situation**: There is a Givewell like org 3 years later
with one less org.

So money would be say less effective, let's say 2-50 times as less
effective

get the different contributions

1. people will continue to donate but not to the effective ones for a while

	- until 2010 to 2014
	
	
		
2. then people will start donating from 2010 or 14 onwards to the new
   GiveWell org


think in terms of the effect 



| Year | Money | Situation A | ce A | Money A | situation B | ce B | Money C |
|------|-------|-------------|------|---------|-------------|------|---------|
| 2007 | X     |             | 1-10 |         |             |      |         |


not considering what the co founders would be doing...

there is uncertainty in the world, deal with it... 

Let's do the fermi tomorrow and puut it out there when ever I
can... but we got to do it fermi style and compare... assuming things
are going to be a factor 10 off. fuck me.


Number of years 3-10 --> 5
Amount of reduction in cost effectiveness 1-50 times --> 7 times




Let's only look at 2015 to 2019 cause that's when there is lot of
money 

there are simply too many variables considering doing any other proper estimate.





## To an STM

how "tractable" is MIRI, why are you "donating" to them? Let's have a chat?


## However

It's highly competitive. Have your own prolties.


heavily inspired from this

## Feedback on

Please provide feedback on what you think are the terms? 

on what you think are the issues with terms, terms missing, 

how off do you think this is?


## todo

- fermi estimate EA total
- fermi estimate US  total
- Effective value EA
- Effective value US

- comments such as on 
  US vs EA probabilties, chances of getting to that are i.e., via this
  thing called dp, and actually knowing how many effective dollars,
  maybe you don't like it even?

## todo

- spell check
- check the post online
- writing dollar
- posting and checking on EA forum

## todo

fermi estiamte of 

re-write

finalize

re-read

spell check

graphics check

post and check on ea forum

[^1]: 
	
	[2014](https://blog.givewell.org/2015/04/13/givewells-money-moved-and-web-traffic-in-2014/)
	[2015](https://blog.givewell.org/2016/05/13/givewells-money-moved-web-traffic-2015/)
	[2016](https://blog.givewell.org/2018/03/30/givewells-money-moved-and-web-traffic-in-2016/)
	[2017](https://blog.givewell.org/2018/06/29/givewells-money-moved-and-web-traffic-in-2017/)
	[2018](https://blog.givewell.org/2019/09/09/givewells-money-moved-and-web-traffic-in-2018/)
	
	[2019](https://www.givewell.org/about/impact)
	
