---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Productivity"
date: 19-07-2021
categories: notes
tags: other
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---

## Introduction

Hi, My name is Agent18 and am a procrastinator. I work 32 hrs a week
and barring some other activities aside (like getting my passport,
meeting friends), I still did pathetic in the last "many weeks", in
the number of logged hours. 

I am really cringing to write it and be ridiculed atleast in the mind
of an STM. But, i am going to leave myself a line of retreat and say
that an STM will see improvement in the coming weeks. and I will post
the essay or atleast tell him about it later.

Wk-1 --> 7hrs --> I remember the whole sunday where I woke up late,
came down, had no plan of what I was going to do, and then ate and
then slept again and then did a bit of running and then decided to
procrastinate more on buying shares online and then a mail and that
was it. Not proud at all.  I did all of the 7 hours on that monday,
and it is no coincidence that there was a form I needed to fill. I
have almost 0 hours for the rest of the days. I had a team outing on
thursday. I didn't really work on thursday and friday so had some
carry over work, but no excuse for the wasting all of Friday (from
13:00 to sleep). And I didn't really play video games, or hang out
with friends, just did absolute jack shit, engaged in talking with
this girl etc. **the only thing I can say is that I did feel like shit,
but still did absolutely jack shit. It was always easy to postpone,
with lack of concrete things to do, or presence of too many
overwhelming things, I chose to do abs. jack squat.**

Wk-2 --> 12 hrs. this is the week that I did slogged the previous week
and wanted to rest and take it easy on Monday, and Tuesday something
came up and made it to 12 hrs I think mainly due to **committing**, Missed
1.5 hrs and lost 25 bucks. Sunday I woke up late and did absolutely
nothing, I might have been hungover. :(

Wk-3 --> 31 hrs. This week I am happy about. I even did 8-10 hours in
on both days of the weekend and 2-4 hours during the rest of the
days. And there was an interview on the next Monday morning and I had
a case test and I had to slog my ass off to get the results and score
well in the interview. **DEADLINE**

wk-4 --> 7hrs --> This week was the week where I was going on vacation
from friday to monday. And Next week I had 2 bomb interviews for which
I needed to prepare. And I only got 5 hours done on monday and some on
thursday. I have a tendency to masturbate and sleep after I excercise
and eat in the evening.

wk-5 --> 20 hrs --> If I have an interview on a day, I don't work
after the interview. wk-6 I was making an application to RP and trying
for some assistant positions. And guess what this was the week where I
promised to friend exactly which days I would work and by how much and
fucked up one day, didn't work one day. :( **COMMITMENT**

wk-6 --> 12 hrs nothing much happened this week. and most of the work
was done by the beginning of the week (tueday night was the deadline)
and you guessed it it was due to **deadline**!

wk-7 --> 25hrs had an interview test and an intership related
webscarping I needed to do. (**DEADLINE**)

Wk-0 --> 6 hrs in 2 days. I would like to say that a bad week almost
jolted me upright into grinding like a koala hugging nigger, but I
made a **commitment** to do 4 hours on monday (found a loop hole and
did 2.5 hrs) and on tuesday am slowly working (towards 4 hrs). the
work on monday laid a bit of foundation about what I am going to do. I
have made a deadline for sunday. I will say from time to time I am
inspired by the like of the people I read about, but I suspect I would
be more than happy to quit less than 4 hours today, if I didn't commit!

For me it is clear the power of commitment. but committing often is
hard due to lack of how things pan out. and I want to do 30 hrs a week
atleast. Let's see.

Logged hours can be considered as work, including, thinking about
what to write, preparation to setup things on my emacs, writing my
thoughts, preparing for an interview etc. What is not included is
anything related to my 9-5 (32hr job), or meeting with friends,
endlessly procrastinating and postponing the beginning of "work" while
I lie down or sleep in my bed watching some useless youtube or office.

I know some people who do 80hr weeks (Guzey) and some people who have
told me who do 60 hr weeks (hurford). At this time I hope to be in
that 60hr time frame atleast. And a whole bunch of California techies
who do 9-10 hrs of work a day and also work in the weekends starting
from sunday evenings.

## Goals

30 + hours week

figure out how to do focussed work counting distractions?

read something in the night before sleep

Make a plan for the future... Something bro.. common.

Let's make a bet to get this done by sunday night... 

I think it should end with me making an actual commitment


**Why goals**

I want to be like these people, I want to know statistics, I want to
be knowledgeable. I want to be really good so I can do awesome
research or earn lots of money. At right now I suck. So I need to
spend time and spend time on the right things.


## 

So far we have seen that we need to do something else or we are
doomed. we see that we need to do 30+ hours of **focussed** work. so
what are we going to do?

## observation

- Commitment works when you commit

- highly valued deadlines like interviews always get me to clock more
  hours that week.

- coding video games and work until a few weeks back atleast has less
  distractions needing of force to sit and clock hours.

- writing tasks especially exploratory ones are particularty hard
  (very easy to loose focus, very hard to keep focus, would love to do
  other things), getting in flow very hard.

- I find it hard to start at 18:00 hrs.

- I am not focuessed all the time. I do wander about.

- Many days I got 

- I have spent entire days doing nothing except sleeping and lying
  down and watching videos in bed when there are always things to do.

- I do feel like shit when I don't do any work for days together. That
  is good. And I do feel rewarded after a good days work.

- even now as I write, someone is claling me to bed. I am fighting it
  with the limited will power I have.
  
- I sleep in the weekends in the afternoon. Personally I love it, but
  even though I did shit in the morning, I continue to do sleep.
  
- It takes some time to 

- Is pomodora something I should consider?
  
- It's not a routine yet, like I do with running every two days
  (almost on the dot).

What doesn't work for me clearly is:

- the 300 word rule (unless I commit), just doing it spontaneously is
  impossible
  
- Waking up and starting work is hard, not regular work but this work
  that I do...
  
- Starting the day properly in the weekends is important for a
  successful day of work.


## why does running have a routine whereas this writing thing doesn't?

I think I guess it reduces weight, lots of speculation. kill this.


## motivation equations

Motivation is proportional to the value of feedback, 1 by time it
takes for feedback and how challenge and skill meet each other.

## What is coming in the way of doing 4 hrs a week day

**Struggling with difficult projects**:

Guzey defines a difficult project as one with "long feedback loops",
no "well-defined scope" and no real deadline. This is pretty much the
assignment for me of writing this essay. They seem to suck the soul
out of me.

It's rather exploratory and time bound. and it needs to be good.

**I suck at this stuff**

I am struggling to write properly.

**Starting trouble**: 

Yesterday, I started at 18:00 hrs and went to my bed in like 3
mins. And came back again after like an hour. On somedays, I come back
after sleeping at around 8:05 pm even, and naturally get "much less"
work done.

But today, I so far didn't do it, but also I couldn't start at 18:00
hrs. I was watching a nice episode of office and didn't want to cut it
short. I just slept for half an hour and realized that I so badly wanted to
go to sleep. I would rather lie down than do this. It took all of 5
mins and eating something to distract me to stay here. I am still
staying here. I have 4 more hours to finish. (deadline?, commitment?)

Now I also took a large break having done only 45 mins so far. It's
ok. 

why Start early? Earlier I start, the earlier I finish, and go to
sleep on time having clocked let's say 4 hours.



It's writing task today. I think it is easier to do 


**Lack of a goal**

I think the lack of a measurable goal is missing. An STM says why
don't I write 1000 words a hour or something like that? Something that
you measure  in case of such tasks where the tasks already are not
clear.

Remember this is draft, write anything.

Why do I think this is an issue. Lack of concrete things to do such as
"send 4 people an email", install said application all have a specific
thing I go towards. I have seen that I can keep trying for hours
together while trying to get something working in algorithm, maybe
cause I know what exactly I am looking for. It is a high feedback scenario.

**Starting late in weekends**

Last Saturday, I went out to drink and came back at about 2pm. Woke up
at 10:30. I had no plans of what I should do. came down ate, realized
I had lot of shit to do, and went back to sleep. 

Almost every weekend I am at home, I like to take a nap after eating. 

**Unable to do 30hrs in the weekend**

**No long term vision**

**How many hours am I focused**

**Unable to plan things that take their own sweet time** I can't plan
and commit and then fail

**No rewards at the end of the day**

1. I think I need to get a good chunk of work done before 10. Starting
   after 10 almost never seems to work (atleast in my head). I can't
   remember when waking up after 10 did any good to me. Atleast that I
   eat in the lunch and then want to nap. I think this is hard to
   contain unless I am in a library I would think.
   
2. If I have procrastinated for most of the day, I have no will power
   to overturn it, thinking that fuck let me atleast do one hour. I am
   like who the fuck cares (I read something about this in Guzeys'
   discourse).

3. I lack big picture image... I have no idea what all I need to do in
   the next 6 months. I am too aimless. and I am worried about: 
   
   
    > Thiel says the most successful visionaries of the past did the
	> opposite of this. They knew what they wanted, planned a
    > strategy, and achieved it. The Apollo Program wasn’t run by
    > vague optimism and “keeping your options open”. It was run by
    > some people who wanted to land on the moon, planned out how
    > to make that happen, and followed the plan. Not slavishly,
    > and certainly they were responsive to evidence that they
    > should change tactics on specific points. But they had a firm
    > vision of the goal in their minds, an approximate vision of
    > what steps they would take to achieve it, and a belief that
    > acheiving an ambitious long-term plan was the sort of thing
    > that people could be expected to do. And great startups like
    > SpaceX are much the same. Elon Musk started with a n-step
    > plan to get to Mars, and he’s currently about halfway
    > through. ---guzeeeys about

	So many times I have felt what I have to be like, like those
    people thinking in bayes, or decision theory or all that fancy
    stuff. I got to be those guys, but it's been a eye robbing 3
    months since I got admitted into the new analyst position and
    still I am mentally masturbating. Ok I did some resarch on finding
    more info and preparing for the indrews but the abstract
    procrastination and the lack of ability to even clock 30 hours is
    absolute BS.

4. I as part of doing work, Just procrastinated watching twitter for
   about 5 -10 mins.... Twitter was supposed to be on leechblock,
   butit was not and then I started. I need to fix this?

5. If I have an interview on a day, I don't work after the interview
   even if it ended at 1 pm.
   
   thej bro, if your time valuable or not? are you doing important
   things or not? Refer to what PH said about this.
   
6. What to do when I am unable to finish a commitment of 4 hrs by the
   last half hour? what if I am bored, what if I feel I have
   accomplished enough? What if I feel, suck it up and get work done.
   
   Pick up another task that is still important? Like reading the book
   or completing my reading list? Wathc youtube videos on useful
   things for example. Only in the extreme cases... Should not be
   everyday. But I feel really saturated and am happy to pick up other tasks.


## What are the greats saying.

Guzey, Peter and Paul Christino's posts on productivity suggest that
they undertake some form of POMODORO. So 20-25 mins of work followed
by 5 mins of doing what ever you want. In Guzey's case this is 5 mins
to discuss what you are going to do in the next half hour.

All of them also focus on committing to doing something either using
beeminder or through explicitly asking your friend to show up for a
long virtual meeting.

I think it is useful especially in tasks where there isn't a clear end
and is a bit exploratory. I had been struggling for a few days now
with my new job. And don't think I was satisfied with the work I was
able to cover. It was really painful. 

Today for the first time I feel like I did some work, atleast I feel
like it. POMODORO gave me a way to not worry about clocking 8 hours. I
focused only on the next 20-25 mins. And the other 5 mins, I sometimes
used twitter and sometimes just walked around thinking what I needed
to do and what I should spend the next pomodoro on. I really liked it
for that reason. But only time will tell if this is the shiz... 

today I also decided to do the same for the writing as I was massively
procrastinating in general. 

Even just committing is not enough. It is still hell for me. With
managing the procrastination.


## Structure of essay

1. introduction wasting of time in the last weeks

2. goals

3. observations, so lets commit?

4. But there is still starting trouble

5. But there is still middle trouble (exploratory posts)

	1. pomodoro, numbers and hten thinking of importance and goals, to
       light the fire in you?

6. Other things, big picture stuff

7. reviewing

8. I also want to read something useful. I also want to wake up in 10s


9. Make a question on pomodoro on ea forath

## Lessons learn't

1. you don't need to analyze and sift for patterns from years of
  data. You don't need to do the best data analysis and find the right
  causation and correlation. You don't need to clean the data to a
  perfect 100degrees Centigrade. You don't need to look at history as
  far as a year. Just look at the last week, or the last last
  week. Simple examples are better than procrastinating on the lack of
  proper data you faggot.

2. Writing the first -redraft of this essay was so awesome, I think I
   was in flow, the words kept falling out of my hands and 30 mins ran
   and I have been writing about a 1000 words. Of course, most of it
   is like talking about personal experience etc. I guess the hard
   part is not farting but making respectable conclusions from this,
   or forcing the mind to thign of how I am going to make this into a
   readable article.
   
3. It's not just you. cognitive empathy? Even the great Scott
   Alexander had this in 2009 where he wanted to read books.

## Garbage on commiting

There are several aspects of it right? 
- doing the 




one
of the days I started at 18:00hrs (which is a miracle by itself,
somehow I was motivated to).

I usually commit to doing X hrs of work a day. But then I struggle to
complete it. I don't like the feeling I get when I have stare down the
barrel of 4 hrs that I need to complete. Any slip in time, and I have
to stay way late. It's easy to procrastinate without doing work and
then because of the commitment you force yourself to finish it in an
unpleasant way by staying up late. This affects the next day and the
vicious cycle continues.

For example, one of the days I started at 18:00hrs (which is miracle
by itself, somehow I was motivated to)

Great now that I have committed to working 4 hours a day for the next
week (start small) it should be a piece of cake. Let's go! But
wait. Yesterday for example of a day. I started at 18:00 hrs which is
a miracle by itself. It has been so hard to start around that time. I
always procrastinated until 18:30 or 19:00hrs, ALWAYS. After starting,
I held my breadth for exactly 7 minutes and rushed to the bed as I
couldn't deal with it. With great difficulty I push myself to get up
and sit at my desk. Luckily the task yesterday was a low-friction task
of writing from scratch where I wrote a lot about personal experience
and didn't care about structure or anything and just was dumping
material from my head into a paper. I can manage that. :) and I did so
with just one session >1 hr.

I tell you, committing the duration is just one part of the issue. The
current task, today for example, I am working on is writing an essay,
generating new ideas and doing 4 hours of that everyday with a
deadline to publish at the end of the week. I started at 18hrs and
after only 13 mins I wanted to go sleep. So I forced myself to sleep
on my desk and then following that I worked for half an hour, and then
took a half hour break and another 40 mins and another half hour
break. 

I can commit to a starting time, and working 25 mins. But that doesn't
cure my struggle fighting against myself to get things done. Today, (I
did feel a "lot tired")


Unlike a coding assignment--where I am able to work 8-10hours
on both days of the weekend-- there is "plenty of feedback" on if I am
on the right track or not. Here, there is absolutely not. It's a hunch
at best, if I will meet the deadline one week away. I am scratching my
head to pick up some form of content that helps me with some decent
structure for an essay. For some reason I feel very hard to focus,
generate ideas and the weight of having to do 4 more godforsaken hours
of this is not pleasing at all. I make one mistake of taking 1 hr off
and then the penalty is huge that I have to extend to late night to
finish it.

Starting before 18:00 hrs might not even be the issue. Let's say I
commit to it. I mean it's hard but maybe I can just commit to it. But
staying focused calls for something else.


## What has worked in the past
   
## ideas

1. Leave something easy to start the next day 

2. Know clearly what to do the next day.

3. org mode permanent todos?

## todo

1. write all the issues the hard parts to jump over with an example
   (as a scene of reflection)

2. Look at the ideas and see "what is interesting" and how you can
   use them to correct the above issues for them?

3. Look at the ideas I have as a result of writing? thigns that would
   make it easy like planning ahead of time, haveing checklist etc...

4. refactor mix ideas and issue, refactor one last time and conclude?

## Avalable time: 

Mon 2.5
Tus 4
wed 4
thurs 0 for this
Friday 4
Sat 2-3
Sun 6
----- 

23.5 hours, the last essay took 34 hours over several days.

we have -->  17 hours left

