## Goal

In September, I made the official decision to move to "data
Science". I expected it to not be that difficult. I expected pretty
much the first application to get an interview. I mean all the hype
and random people from different groups are after all moving into Data
Science how hard could it be?
 
 
## Phase 1: Apply with current skills (November)

Application: Make CV with a guy from apple california who looks at
40-60 cv's a year to iron it out. 

25 applications-->Then whatever I found on Linkedin I applied irrespective of
experience with titles such as "Data Scientist", "ML engineer" etc...

Current skills: 1 year capstone series from coursera (clocked 600-800
hours) + "really basic" apps on NLP (predict next word) + "explanation
on sample distribution of sample means" using emperical data and
deploying it. 

**Feedback**

1. company A with a junior scientist position at bol.com said "I have
   mech degree" and that I had to "re-write it to get a job". They
   also said they got 100's of applications for this position and that
   **they had "many" people with experience** and prefer them over me.

2. Company B whom I called up the team lead and asked him directly
   what went wrong. He spoke to me and I told him what I trying to do
   with Kaggle for experience and he said **"I am on the right
   track"**. Even they do kaggle weekends.

3. Spoke to body and ML job require you to apply algos (knowing when
   to apply what seemed important). Also many jobs had rf's and other
   techniques mentioned. 

Best I can then do is re-write and show the mathematics of mech
masters. and gain "more experience" (i.e., gaggle)... and do some
practical machine learning...

P.S

Getting feedback is a bitch, need to call people when I am
home... Most people don't pick up. Calling takes a fair bit of axiety
and preparation for atleast 10 mins before call. Was not able to do it
in the middle of the day while working for exmaple. It demanded a lot
more. people won't pick up so you need to try again and again...

Somehow these two feedbacks I got. Not sure what is the right time to
call them... though! 

## Phase 2: 

**Preparation** (Nov to March)

1. To improve Cv--> rewrote the mech engineering thing

2. So I did already coursera courses for a full year (600-800hrs) and
   worked specifically on deeplearning and machine learning via kaggle
   competitions and courses in ML (another 300-400 hrs) and SQL (30-40hrs) and
   Tableau. I still was not able to find a single interview after
   applying to several companies (40-50 applications mainly through
   linkedin 2-3 months of applications). I looked at the ironhack
   course and it feels like I have learn't most of it already.


Ideas to get exp... kaggle, meetups and chat with people who have done
it... Find an exmaple and focus on the nigger as ... meetups, lkunch
box, iron hack and doing specific things if only I had fucking
feedback.


**Application**

Tried appling to Data Scientist jobs, but never made it. Tried appling
to ds,jds,da,jda jobs.

**What I got**

4. I screwed up one email to ikea, but she was already saying she had
   other candidates and was not replying to me

5. a company WCC (100 people) called me junior, that they needed
   someone who can run from the get go.

**Feedback**

Poor feedback from recruiters... Tried calling no one picked up... causing lot of
anziety and time mainly... barely reached one person out of 5-6
calls. and it seem worthy...

Got feedback for certain positions

1. abn amro --> jda --> "you are into advanced analytics/data science"
   these guys get bored, Enormous amount of candidates, people get
   bored in this job. Job needed SQL python visualization thats all,
   the most basic. I had all at that point.

2. Many companies wanted me to have complete fluency in
   Dutch. HelloFresh for example

3. Traineeships where you start from scratch needed dutch.

6. ASML research group wanted people not with coursera but atleast a
   pdeng "real cedreics"or phd (that they were looking for expereinced people)
   
7. Within asml other teams didn't have vacancies and there was one
   more team that only wanted phds ONLY.

8. And the standard "they have a better fit of candidates"

I struggled a lot with not knowing what to do and started going behind
a job that I would get. Tried even BA for crying out loud.

Speaking to someone who has done it might be the best way. Common
pandiya dhikaadho...

No type of analysis will help bro...  talk to more people "who have
done it"

Nothing concrete I can do?

Look in terms of skills and talk... distinguish between DS jobs and DA
jobs... know what you are trying to go for.

I want to apply afresh to companies with DS and DA. Look at the skills
and make a list to understand what they are looking for in DS people
or DA people... This way I can group them and see what I "might" need
to do...

**My take on bootcamps**

**Claim**: even people who took bts are straggling

I see profiles who get jobs after 1 year of having left their previous job.

**Claim**: can't believe credential adds value

**Claim**: I think that beign an ML data scientist is where I need to
be... thats where body is at... and marinate with that to go to other
top opportunities.


can you do two things?

Or should I do one thing? accept the risk? it's a backup ou gaggot?

**IDs**

I really don't know what to do... Keep on this eternal hunt for
becoming a data analyst and becoming better or jumping to the real
stuff i.e., hypothesis understanding, and skills needed to go into
givewell. How about an internship?

Apply a few more with the focus on feedback... on what exactly to do?


## Constraints

Nex 3-4 months I have rehab... So might be preferable to stay in
ASML... and then we see what to do or which direction to go? or you
already prep during that time and you see someother thing to do.

How are you going to come to a conlusion about what you are going to
do... 

I am really unsure... I could be doing the following:

1. starting investigation on skills needed or people on how they made
   the move. 
   
   This could look anything like  an internship, or grinding at home
   on statistics and understanding papers and making documents.
   
2. Starting to check the question as an STM suggests if this is even
   powerful? I think this is something I would like to do, otherwise
   put all effort into the DS and do DS for life (cali plans etc....)
   
3. grind on things on the side, do other projects i.e., kaggle,
   arhubaux related SPD emergency type of stuff.


## concrete things to dag?

1. get the skills list "and apply?" for feedback org the skills
   separately and write to everyone to give concrete skills I was
   missing...
   
2. linkedin find more people dm them 

3. Waht all can  i do in the next three months? What "makes sense"?


## Where are we at 1

We know the following:

1. I started with apping for DS and didn't get that and moved to DA.
2. Meanwhile I also tried in ASML.

Getting a fresh start seems hard outside. I barely got an interview.

I don't have any proper feedback on what exactly I am missing other
than experience. 

And the feedback I have points to the following: competition,
experience, have better people, and "particular skills I could be
missing" or somehow my resume is shit??

I am not sure bootcamps will help. knowledge wise it is nothing new to
offer. If I got rejected in an indrew I understand but that was never
the case. 

I am not sure bootcamps will help get an indrew as well. Looking at
certain profiles that I could find, many people seem to have been
having a hard time finding a job. Looking at the gap.

Tried reaching out to people from bootcamps but got very limited
response from people who actually made it.

People from non-ml background surely start small. Vaidehi started
informed me that she started at a startup and not a big company like
ING. and slowly made her way to a bigger and more stable company. At
the startup apparently there were all sorts fo backgrounds who then
moved on (with this experience) to "big companies" just like her.


Not sure where I start is even considered DA. The skills I missed vs
the skills I gain there are things that I don't learn. Not sure of
it's impact. For example, one year down the line will any one from
asml want to hire me?

Things I could do:

1. pdeng program
2. "more kaggle" although so far no one seems to have given a single
   fuck, HR people didn't know about it, and I got 0 indrews (after
   apping to 60 companies)
   
3. do really well in the job, pick up some intrepreneurial tasks.

4. Leave it and get back to picking up where I left of last september.

5. Still do the bootcamp

6. internship

Side note: I have some injuries which give don't allow me to max out
and am going into a rehab for another 3 months. I will be working less
and no one can do anything about it within asml.





On that I have some questions...  on the side I will try to see what I
could be doing and evaluate how to make the next successive steps to a
great future.




Side note on merrij and ladis: I think persuation is key. I think I am
coming back.. The goal was only not to waste time... I will start off
where we left off. 

# Journey post

In [this post](/career-update.html) I had decided to move to a DS job after which I can
comeback to figuring out what I needed to do in EA. Basically DS is my
backup and I would start my journey in here while I work on the side
to move towards EA.

It is "well known" that for data science, people from various
branches of education retrain and get into Data Science. I personally
know a few people from TUDelft one from embedded systems (who did a 9
month thesis on Deep learning), and one from sustainable engineering
(similar to mechanical) who after her master's moved to a role in data
(also did internship in shell in "data management") (positions titled
"Data Scientist").

## Phase 0: Just Apply

At the end of November 2020 I had, a master's "heavy" in Linear
Algebra and Calculus, a few years experience in mech engineering
600-700 hours of courses and projects from a Data Science Course
series from coursera, and a CV that I had thoroughly vetted from an
Apple Data Scientist (who looks at a 50-100 cv's a year for hiring).

This seems not enough as I didn't get a single call for even a
"Jr. Data Scientist role". I applied to exactly 25 companies (not
considering the experience mentioned) that I found on LinkedIn. One HR
from bol.com told me that I had a "mechanical degree" (implying that
it is not math) and that there were 100's of people who applied and
had experience. A "team lead" from another company told me that I was
not fit for the "data science consulting role" that they had now, but
put me in connection to another branch who didn't have any vacancies,
and informed me I was "going in the right direction" (with getting
experience from Kaggle). Apparently they also worked on Kaggle.

In addition, many vacancies wanted me to be able to use decision trees
and other ML techniques (amidst other things), which I didn't have any
experience in.

## Phase 1: work on yourself

I fixed my CV with clarifying that Mech master's is math intensive,
did a course on ML and then went on with doing kaggle for 3 months. I
worked on legacy competitions so I could try myself and learn from the
greats what a better solution was. After grinding for about 3 months
ended up with top 10% scores and top 20% scores in 2 sets of
competitions in applied machine learning. Yes, I did get help from the
actual solutions, but there was still a lot of work to do and I
learn't a "lot". As you will see later, this part about me not being
"100%" responsible for the solution matters much less.

I highlighted in my cv with the "top 10%" solutions in
Kaggle. Boasting such a "powerful" credential that is most likely
going to get me interviews atleast.

## Phase 3: Apply again

This time I applied to 60 vacancies that I mostly saw on LinkedIn, 2
through referral. Half way through the application realized no one is
interested in hiring me as a data scientist. 0 calls. I got a call
from an HR who asked me what this kaggle was and in the end realized
that they want people with "real experience".

Thus, it was decided to also look for roles as a Data Analyst and
business analyst. I tried sending the same cv, I tried "removing"
image processing credentials, I tried putting focus on "SQL, python,
tableau" over the course of applying to these companies. I got only 1
call from a company called Picnic, but they had such high standards
for entry where I didn't manage the "IQ" test even. Ended up at 47
percentile while they needed 70 percentile.

It was hard to get feedback from recruiters. Mailing people seldom
resulted in replies. Calling them directly, did not work this time as
people just didn't pick up. Repeatedly following up was taking too
much time.

I get the feel like I don't fit in the Data analyst pool, or the Data
scientist pool. I might be "over-qualified" in one and poorly
qualified in the other. For a Junior Data analyst position which
basically needed python sql and visualization, I got this feedback,
that people like me will be bored in 6 months, + there were 100s of
applications and that I might be suited for advanced analytics. 

I think knowing Dutch would have improved my chances as I got quite a
few rejects from small companies (100-200people) saying they needed
people who are fluent in dutch. I think this was a major downside,
that didn't let me start small. I tried even traineeships geared to
train you and send you to a proper job in data, Dutch was one of the
issues atleast, when I asked for feedback.

The other standard error message I received is that "there are other
candidates who fit the requirements better than me". This is quite
useless as it gives me 0 action points.

## Phase 3: Search within current company

At the same time I started apping for Data science role, I started to
talk to people within my 28k people semiconductor company. I planned
calls with several managers (20-30 people) to ask them if they had
jobs in data science or analysis.

Some groups wanted PhD's or some Data Science education (like a
pdeng). Others who "liked me" didn't have vacancies and pointed me to
other people. Here again I tried Data science, Data Analytics,
Business Analytics and something which is a cross between Data
Analytics and Customer interaction, relying a tiny bit on me being
in the same company. I wont call that domain expertise, but my
knowledge could be useful a bit in this position.

And those are the only positions I landed. They just needed someone
with "passion", someone who could drive the process, who "had" data
analysis capabilities. This was enough.

Looking within the company was time consuming but it gave me other
opportunities like having conversation with a manager about a job and
then applying to it after clearly knowing what they were looking
for. There were physics based data analysis roles which I got to know
after talking to the manager and then pitched in that direction. At
this point I was looking for any start.

This current job is all about "making impact through data". Looking at
customer data, spotting trends and identifying what will improve their
KPIs.

I am really unsure this doens't look like a "traditional" data analyst
role, where SQL and querying to get the dater is a huge part of being
an analyst according to body.

## Bootcamp might not be right for me

I am not so sure, if this is an option. I don't think the bootcamp is
for me. or will help me get a job.

I have done most of the course work in the past. I look at the
ironhack syllabus and it is very "similar" to what has been
covered. They also do Machine Learning teaching and I have already
done kaggle competitions where ML is a pre. I also have projects at
hand. The question at hand right now is still if I can get an
interview, or not. So What I actually know is irrelevant.

They do have a career week, but when I asked some other people with
years of experience they said it was "basic" and that if you have
applied before, you can skip it. Also I think asking a person for
where he found companies from, copying ideas of how his CV looks, how
his github looks, how his blog looks, how his cover looks, "seems" to
be better. This way I work directly from an EXAMPLE.

The statistics of placement (67% placed in 1-3 months and 76% in 1-6
months) doesn't cover the whole story. There are [many](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sudisna-lenka-897337a0/) [MBAs](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yusichen/),
people from [marketing](https://www.linkedin.com/in/roosrabenberg/) who go back into similar field or
[PhDs](https://www.linkedin.com/in/leonidasfaliagkas/), in the alum of Ironhack (From 2020 onwards), moving to Data
Analytics jobs. It is rare to find [people from like an
engineering](https://www.linkedin.com/in/miriamcc/) background who move into a field completely different
(e-commerce/Finance). So I am afraid of the claims of the statistics
and that it does not represents people like me.

I am looking for examples and trying to network via linkedin and also
considering joining things like Meetups to find people "similar"
people to me who can show me how it is done. "There should be people
like me who are also ready to help me or share their journey".

Staying in the same company or within a domain could help get jobs. I
converted both opportunities I got within the company. While I applied
to every other company and failed miserably (0/60+ applications) to
get even a junior data analysis job. People like roos, who worked in
with marketing joining another marketing company applying to only 30
companies, getting multiple (\>5) + she also has experience. Even this
person on "towardsdatascience" made it in 6 months and thinks her
domain knowledge helped her. But these are not actual examples for
claims so be wary. These are just testimonials and an STM frowns on
these.

Starting small might also be another thing... i.e., startups etc.

Moving after ironhack seems easier within the domain compared to
non-domainers (people with mba or marketting have directly gone into a
job) whereas other people needed internships.

Moving after university seems easier within domain compared to
non-domainers.

Moving seems easier with an internship. This [person](https://www.linkedin.com/in/miriamcc/), from a
foreign master's and exchange with Netherlands, managed an internship
now seems to have an actual data engineering position. 

It's possible to get internships --> look at these these these
people... That could be an option

People are getting internships (who are similar to me), not sure where
they end up after... Sounds like a start...

I think I should network in the mean time that I don't have a real
job.

## What am I unsure about

1. If current job passes for "data analyst" 

comparing skills is an option indeed

2. One year later can I Pass on to another "proper" job?

Try to wrap it up with open questions... You are starting somewhere
now. I am going to focus on becoming the next best
researcher... Finding out the skills, finding out if I am
right with lifetime caleculations. Ask an stm how to go about it. That
is the next step as written in the old career essay. I just need to
get things in motion. It may set me back in DS Netherlands career by 2
years... but no one is giving me an ML job now anyways. Meanwhile I
will also atted DS meetings and see what I can do to get a "real job"
and see if there is something to do there. But the focus now is to
just focus on main thing, i.e., 

a set back of two years lets say will result in reduction in the item
by XX... that is all I need. .


So I checked that if DL L1 extends by 2 years (as is going to be the
case, how much am I set back by?) It turns out 

## What are the tradeoffs

I am interested in the lifetime calculations i.e., effective value of
pursuing a career in EA.

Now I have with me the option to try a bit more in the direction of DS
or just continue.

No I could be continuing hwich would set me back by 2-3 years
possibly with the failure tracks in the decision tree, not the main
track. 

The other option is delay the path to EA


So in the EA track there are the Success and failure tracts in the
decision tree. When I succeed I go into EA, when I fail I go into DS
in Netherlands and try L1 from there provided I am good. 

Now I am at this crossroads where I can delay either the success or
failure paths. What this means is that, I can continue doing my DA in
ASML for another 2 years and then move within ASML i.e., continuing
with pursuing my career in EA. Or I can spend another say 1 year
trying to find an DA job in the real world by grinding for another
many months.

So Far I don't see it as an option, as I think the pandemic and the
competition somehow is too much. It is unclear what I could be doing
better. I can for sure think of doing a masters...

But roughly let's say I delay failure case by 2 years or success case
by another 2 years and find out what is the thing that happens...

What is the impact in both the cases. This will help me conclude if i
should continue with one or move on.

After figuring that out, we come back to how long and why i think i
will have the setback i think I have.

Framing my question... What is the effective value in EA track, when
we spend another 2 years, 1 years and 6 months on DS instead of EA
track? 

| EV EA Track                      | Low  | BGE    | High  |
|----------------------------------|------|--------|-------|
| 31GW start & DS delay by 2 years | 870k | 1.365m | 1.85m |
| 32GW start and get DS job asap   | 860k | 1.335m | 1.8m  |

Case 1: Start now with EA track, with current DA job in ASML.

This involves starting the EA track now, while I am stuck in this DA
job for another 2 years and can move towards a "proper DA or DS" role
in 2 years (but still counts as experience). i.e., this is expected to
setback DA by 2 years.

I think with this it might actually be higher. This job I treat it
like it is "not a data analysis" job, when in reality, I will be
"creating impact". I don't have anything proper to say about this...

For now I am going to reevaluate my decision later. Start with the
job, attend a few meetups and find people who are similar to me. And
evaluate after 6 months.

Case 2: Start 1 yr later with EA track, and try to get in meanwhile
with "proper DA or DS" 

This involves waiting on the EA track till I find a job, while I
continue applying like a bitch and try to get ahead with DA jobs and
interviews

The calculated value is expected to still be lower, considering that
there is not a "great" chance of actually making it in 1 year. For
example I know the plight of a PhD with 3/100+ applications, not to
mention the yucky feeling of applying over and over again like a robot
in large numbers and still not making it over months. Looks like the
time is not really great to find a job outside.



## Evaluating the following scenarios

EA value 1.43

1. what if I don't start EA now... You loose 80k in value

	EA value 1.35
	DS value
	
2. What if I don't start ds already but do this "psuedo-da" and
   continue with EA work --> not much difference it looks like.
   
   EA value 1.42
   DS value 
   
   This is my ending... start rewriting. The impact to EA effective
   value seems negligible. You will still be at the top if we
   continue.. In cases of failure you will have 2 years lesser impact
   but we are looking at effective value. I will take this and run. :)

## These are my options

1. find similar people and do job search again (Identify what the
   issue could be?)
   
2. Leave it as it is, it is a start and move on with identifying what
   I need to do for a research position in givewell types?

3. Find an internship (There are example and people starting with
   internships after their ironhack)
   
4. pdeng

5. intrapreneur other tasks

6. Look for edumacation in the US.


## What are other "successful" people doing?

And as an STM said back in Jan, find people similar to me and see what
they are doing?

I am really skeptical about my current job...

## Why did you "fail" Why didn't you do a bootcamp?

I am really not convinced about doing the bootcamp for e.g.,
ironhack. The portions are very similar to what I have done already. 

They claim a 67% people get a job 3 months and 76% in 6 months. I am
not sure how they get to this, and what percentage of these people are
not working within their same company. 

I do see cases of people who took 8 months to find a job
([Sudisna](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sudisna-lenka-897337a0/)). And others who still did an internship or are doing an
internship before they get to an actual job ([Viktoria](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nenashevavictoria/), [other
girl](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sudisna-lenka-897337a0/)).

I am unable to find people who finished the bootcamp and got a job
(not within the same company or without a PhD). PhDs have their
respect as I have seen in ASML from some guys, who just want PhDs.


At this point I have decided to network, join some meetups and see
where that takes me. In any case I can't move for the next three
months as I have

meanwhile I got a "data analysis job"??????????/


So now what? What happened? Why didn't you get a job?

Well I have some hypothesis... 

You need to start at a small company like a start up that is
international friendly.

The jobs all needed experience and they gots it?

I fucked up my CV?

I didn't have the right motivation for the job? 

IT IS JUST HARD TO FIND A JOB WHEN jumping from a "non-data"
background especially now. Or It takes upto a year for people not in
the background to get a job...

It looks like it took [Sudisna](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sudisna-lenka-897337a0/) 10 months to complete the course and
get a job. 

Some [people after the bootcamp started with an internship](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sudisna-lenka-897337a0/) in
spain and then found a data engineering job here in about 2 months and
then moved on to a data engineering role.

I see many people struggling who are from different background to get
a job: [Viktoria](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nenashevavictoria/) after her bootcamp in 2020, still doesn't have a
job in datascience and has manged to start as an intern in data
engineering.

Here are some profiles which would be good to check in a few months: [Marcello](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marcellocanetto/)

The pandemic has certainly reduced the chances for people like me?
example


Getting a job [within your "domain" in dater seems possible](https://www.linkedin.com/in/roosrabenberg/).



## data science skills

python --> 16/30

sql --> \>10

ML,decision tree, rf, regression, classification etc... --> 15

DL, CNN, NN --> 2

viz --> 5

Statistics --> atleast 4

pyspark --> 3

hadoop --> 3

kubernettes --> 1

julia -->2 

tensorflow --> 2

pytorch --> 1 

azure --> 3

aws --> 4

gcp --> 1

ETL --> 0

\> 1 year --> 13

## data analytics skills 

In no particular order, these are the skills mentioned 

SQL, excel, data visualization: tableau (BI softwares), java, spark
hadoop, pyspark, aws usage, etl, azure, kuberneets hadoop docker, R


SQL --> 15/27

BI --> 10/27 atleast

python,R --> 10/27 atleast

docker --> 1 atleast

kubernetes --> 2 atleast

hadoop --> 3 atleast

spark --> 1

java --> 2 atleast

\>1 yoe --> 8 atleast

ETL (data engineering) --> 2 atleast 

More than 100 apps according to linkedin --> 10-15 apps

jda --> 3 atleast

da --> 20 atleast

ba --> 2 atleast

pyspark --> 0 Da positions

body... --> writing queries (SQL) cleaning, manipulation, addiing
features, data products, insights and presentation, correlation
analysis, hypothesis testing, create data impact, statistics

azure --> 2

GCP -->  0

AWS --> 1


## skills I think I didn't have purely looking at the "requirements"


# Where are we at 2

## Introduction

In [this post](/career-update.html) I had decided to move to a DS job after which I can
comeback to figuring out what I needed to do in EA. Basically DS is my
backup and I would start my journey in here while I work on the side
to move towards EA.

With this post I explain my transition journey and recollect for
myself where I am at and what my next steps to me.

## the journey phase 0

It is well documented that for data science, people from various
branches retrain and get into Data Science. I personally know a few
people from TUDelft one from embedded systems, and one from
sustainable engineering who after their master's moved to a role in
data (positions titled "Data Scientist").

At the end of November 2020 I had, a master's "heavy" in Linear
Algebra and calculus, I had a few years experience in mech engineering
600-700 hours of courses and projects from a Data Science Course
series from coursera, and a CV that I had thoroughly vetted from an
Apple Data Scientist (who looks at a 50-100 cv's a year for hiring).

This was clearly not enough as I didn't get a call for even a Jr. Data
Scientist role. I applied to exactly 25 companies (not considering the
experience mentioned) that I found on LinkedIn. One HR from bol.com
told me that I had a mech degree, there were 100's of people who
applied and had experience. A "team lead" from another company told me
that I was not fit for the consulting role that they had now but put
me in connection to another branch, but that I was "going in the right
direction" (with getting experience from Kaggle). 

So, I fixed my CV (about mech engineering) and then went on with doing
kaggle for 3 months. I worked on legacy competitions so I could try
myself and learn from the greats what a better solution was. After
grinding for about 3 months ended up with top10% scores and top20%
scores in 2 sets of competitions in applied machine learning. Yes, I
did get help from the actual solutions, but there was still a lot of
work to do. As you will see later, this part about me not "100%"
responsible for the solution matters much less. 

In November, after a month of setting up a resume for data science
roles, I got 0 call backs.

Back in 2019 august I had already completed a training from Coursera
(which took me roughly about 600-700 hours). With that already I had
worked on some projects. I cleaned up work, set up a "portfolio" on
github and started off searching a job. Just to test if I was already
good enough and to get "valuable feedback" one what more I needed to
do.

I applied to exactly 25 companies (what ever I found on linkedin not
paying regard to the yoe). I didn't hear from anyone. I called bol.com
and they told me that I didn't have experience 


In theory with some training I could also go into a Data Science
role. 

