

## Entry question

What should I do now? Career wise.

## Introduction

[Last year, I made lifetime impact estimates](/career-update.html) for a career in Data
Science and a career as a GiveWell Researcher. The effective value
seems to suggest to bet on the GiveWell Researcher path.

{:.tablestyletwo}
| Effective value                | low      | BGE      | high     |
|--------------------------------|----------|----------|----------|
| DS Masters                     | 713k     | 741k     | 865k     |
| DS L1                          | 642k     | 662k     | 875k     |
| GW Researcher                  | 914k     | 1.43m    | 1.95k    |

I had decided last year to pursue the path of a GiveWell Researcher
but switch to Data Science to keep it as a backup. I am curently a
Data Analyst but an STM seems to think I should pursue Data Science
like a madman instead of GiveWell Researcher. 

His two main points are that, what I have are estimates and that the
impact of a GiveWell Researcher is farther removed than that of a
donor. And 2, that gaining "EA skills" is far less tangible that "Data
Science skills". 

With this post I hope to explore these views and answer for myself
what I should be doing in the coming months.

## Researcher estimates has a lot of guesses

[Last year, I made lifetime impact estimates](/career-update.html) for a career in Data
Science and a career as a GiveWell Researcher. The effective value
seems to suggest to bet on the GiveWell Researcher path.

{:.tablestyletwo}
| Effective value                | low      | BGE      | high     |
|--------------------------------|----------|----------|----------|
| DS Masters                     | 713k     | 741k     | 865k     |
| DS L1                          | 642k     | 662k     | 875k     |
| GW Researcher                  | 914k     | 1.43m    | 1.95k    |


The estimates are essentially however [fermi-type estimates](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/PsEppdvgRisz5xAHG/fermi-estimates) thus
involving a lot of guesses. For example, the counterfactual
contribution of GiveWell is estimated to be 37%. This is obtained by
assuming that a GiveWell-like organization would have formed anyway
after 7 years. If it is 2 years the estimate becomes 14% and if is is
10 years then it becomes more. Changing the counterfactual impact to
14% alone brings the total impact down to even 600k. The sad part is
there are other factors. 

Consider the counterfactual impact of a researcher, which is based on
how good the employed researcher is over the person who didn't get the
same position. This is guessed to be 5-15%. There is not much of a way
to feel confident that I will be 5-15% better (by what metric?)  than
the person I displace (ahead of time). And from speaking to the people
in the biz, they say they find the person employed and the person
displaced to have "little to no difference" (by what metric?). So it
is really hard to reliably have that counterfactual impact. 

If for example Data Science in the US is accessible to me, and my
counterfactual impact as a researcher is 1%, I might as well pursue
the Data Science route and allow the displaced researcher to take my
place, there by having a much larger impact for the world. There are a
lot of ifs and buts. Again, this is Just an estimate.

The other sad part is there is no way to know what it could be, as
this is all just a guess from my side. And no matter how complicated
the model, the outcome will be still be an "estimate" from which we
derive the Dollar figures. I don't know what to base it on, and from
the discussions with Ea people like Arun Gertler and Peter Wildeford,
they never talked about impact at all, they always said its a matter
of personal fit. I wish I understand what they were saying then. Arun
for example, tried telling me that when he did a calculation the error
band would be a factor 10 off, Well I wish some one hit me in the head
with this info.

So in line with fermi estimates I feel only confident in saying that
the estimates for the impact of a GiveWell researcher are going to be
a factor 10 off. I.e., 143k to 14m impact.

The thing is there are a lot of guesses
in the estimates. For example, the counterfactual contribution of
GIVEWELL is estimated to be 37%. However, depending on the
hypothetical scenario starting on different years, this can be 14% (2
years) or even 40%. This is just one of the parameters and several
parameters multiply. In my best guess I am at 1.43m, but taking into
account this counterfactuals variation we go as low as 600k even, just
taking this one factor's complete variation. But this value can
"never" be tested, its an "educated guess" based on how many
organizations like GiveWell are in the future. Adding to this one more
parameter like the counterfactual estimate of a researcher, then
things get even more dire.

And the best error band I can feel most confident about is a max of
factor 10 off (as typically Fermi estimates get us in this order),
atleast for the value of a researcher. However that means a variation
from 143k to 14m. I don't even know which sid

Things get way more blurry if it is not a GiveWell Research position
where you know how much money you move (typically). If this is
somehting like RP, which informs decisions of other organizations
which bases it's decision to then provide oe not provide grants then I
am really unsure how to even go about it. Or the values get further diluted.

With Data Science also there are guesses, but I feel "different" about
them. For example when I think about the chance of finishing a
master's and getting a job I consider an 80% chance for this. This I
base it on all the people who have made it to the US and continue to
stay there. I rarely hear of stories of people leaving the US. I
probably know of 20 people who are in the US and out of them only 3
people came back and that too not because they didn't get a job but
because their H1B screwed them over. With those sort of anecdotal
evidence, I think the "estimates" are more "sound".

The best part with choosing such a career is that I WILL know what my
contribution is going to be at the end of each year in Data Science
based on the donations. Way more tractable.

God bless. 

---

I have estimates but there are guesses in it. 
- EA related guesses
- Data Science related guesses

I think EA guesses are more of guesses than that of Data Science
guesses as at least they are based on history. EA is based on
hypothetical non existing and never existing info.

## Upskilling

One of the points an stm brings up is that, 

> You mentioned in your earlier post that the "EA path" involved
> "building the skills through DP hopefully". Given the twists and turns
> in the data science app-ing, how sure are you that you know which
> skills are needed for EA research? Also, as I'd mentioned earlier, the
> results of "EA practice" seem a lot less tangible than "data science
> practice". You have a lot of data on the concrete skills data science
> jobs are looking for. You can confidently work on those and get
> feedback. Not sure if you have data or feedback like that for EA
> research.

<!-- skills are vague -->
For example, you need to look no further than the job descriptions of
what is required for each. The vagueness, non-concreteness is pretty
evident. A job in [Data Science](https://web.archive.org/save/https://www.ing.jobs/netherlands/vacancies/vacancy/Data-Scientist-29.htm?org=searchresult), has skills needed, listed as
Machine Learning (and the different types), previous experience with
tools like Python, pyspark, Hadoop, SQL, along with things like
"writes readable, concise and efficient code", "willingness to learn"
etc. Contrast this to the skills in a [Generalist researcher job at
FP](https://web.archive.org/web/20210707192525/https://founders-pledge.jobs.personio.de/job/386446), "cause area prioritizations", "Funding opportunity
investigation", "commitment to social impact",  "excellent analytical
skills", "Good Calibration" etc.

There are a lot of resources online to teach you skills associated
with Data Science. I learn't web scraping in a matter of 6 videos on
youtube (for an assignment of an internship). I learn't Machine
Learning mainly from a course, youtube and kaggle solutions. For SQL I
just did a course. There are some courses that teach you about Animal
welfare, some on global policy etc., but I really don't thing there is
any course that helps you with doing "cause are prioritization" or
"funding opportunity investigation", or "gaining good calibration".

Currently I don't get a job because I don't have experience and no one
wants to give me a job. But from the feedback I got I think I did
learn these things.

In some cases it is possible to DP such as in the case of "learning to
read papers", but doing "quick analysis" I am not even sure there is
an example online. There is a [description here](https://www.charityentrepreneurship.com/cea.html#CEA5min) that describes in
english how it could be done (but without examples) I don't think it's
of any value of me just doing it. The best I think I can do is, do 10
such analysis and post in the EA forum and hope people will comment on
it (don't even ask me about credibility and stuff). With EA I get the
impression that doing and trying already might be just good enough
because everyone else has the same resources (do they? some people do
courses in economics and are phds etc.), they probably have better
skills. For most of the skills in Data Science, I think it is possible
to DP. For example, if I want to improve in Machine Learning, there
are courses and there is Kaggle and several solutions there (it takes
time but there is all the feedback you need). Consider things like
Data exploration, that is one thing I have been struggling with, how
to look at new data and come up with insights, even in this case there
is some help I would say, I can think of reading deliberately books
like that of freakonomics where there are many many examples of how to
look at a vague problem and answer it concretely, there by I could use
the chess method and compare what I am thinking to waht the author has
thought about this.


It looks like there are people to help you with feedback. 

Interview questions, do you follow basian way of thinking


I have written about EA skills [here](http://agent18.github.io/ea-skills-2.html) basically asking some people
GiveWell and other EA organizations what I would need to do. 

You have courses for Data Science related work and much less for EA
related work?

There is lot of feedback to work on Data Science problems, where as
there is not for EA problems?






**Claim**: Results of EA practice seem a lot less tangible than "Data
Science" practice

**re-write Claim**: EA practice

I really don't know, as I feel confused, I really don't know what an
STM is talking abut! It feels like he is right but I have no idea what
he is talking about. 

If I take the skill "quickly evaluate interventions", I really don't
know what to do? I am unsure if reports say how much time they took, I
am unsure on what dimensions to get feedback on, on a short term or a
long term. How to prioritize what I am going to do? How to get that
feedback? I don't know, perhaps look at other "short" reports, but
they don't seem to be in public. So How am I going to pick up this
skill?

Statistics. Even with statistics, there is so much more I could do,
how much is needed (they will say enough to understand and make
judgements), but that is super vague as well. Perhaps I can see what
GiveWell did on several different papers and extract from that to what
level the statistics is required?

Giving feedback critically to people, not sure how this is supposed to
be done, one thing I can do is , how to get better at this? I can do
it and the person will say ok or probably not repsond, the cycle will
be more than  a month. Really sucks I think. 

Where as if someone says, my SQL sucks, I think I can take a course or
look at certain types of problems and practice them. Hmm, also if
someone says I suck at Data Viz, then I can practice more problems,
same with Machine Learning, and same with even working on absolutely
high level shit, like knowing de-featuring (based on what), there are
techniques, but I have to sift through a lot of problems (one thing
that comes to mind is kaggle competitions and their solutions). For
example there are crazy books like Freakonomics, which is all about
taking a claim and brining it down to a testable format, I can even
learn concrete thinking and data science related concrete thinking
from such books. 

AWS, I can learn the shit out of it. NP, there are courses. SQL I can,
What can't I learn? But Why didn't I get a job then? 

Despite doing all this, the job scene was very hard. Assuming both
places are equally competitive (with their intake rates), then I can
only imagine it to be worse in EA.


Say i suck at plotting, I can improve on it. If I suck at interpreting
the results or what plots people are using, I think I can look at
Kaggle for example and see examples of what all people use, read up on
other Data Science material, worst case I can do courses and a
masters. This is one thing that is vague and a bit highlevel,
comparable to that of EA.

Even Statistics I think I can ask Body what exactly to study and learn
and focus on that. With EA getting such feedback seems to be hard. I
don't have a body in EA.


One thing I am not sure w.r.t is the fact that I don't get a chance to
act on it.

EA so far seems competitive, Can I eventually skill up? 

I am more confident of upskilling in Data Science and getting a job
(you mean like the time)?

For example writing research has a long feedback loop. Perhaps reading
is not that bad, as there are reports in GiveWell like this, where we
can see them take apart an entire , but I guess I have to come up with
my own dimensions (perhaps and get feedback from someone). 

## Other

Liking the job or not liking the job, knowing that you are so far off?
(Isn't that a useful skill to develop?) Saulius told me that the job
is very boring as he has to work with things that are vague and there
is too much uncertainty sometimes, there is little to no help.

Perhaps I would thrive more with mentorship and learning from other people.?


## Finance

It's scary to work with such a low salary, but many people do.

I have a complete lack of understanding of how much money minimum I
need to survive. I think however the  of how a "low" salary of 60k would be enough to live
in the US. I think of things like insurance when I don't have a job,
when I

Lack of understanding about savings. I am not sure how the savings
scene is going to be. FP offered a 50k euro salary, which is ok if
there is no 10% donation. But currently I don't know how I would live
with limited money, although 50k euro sounds pretty good. I used to
live with 40k for 2 years after my masters. I think it is doable. you
will not be able to save as much.

## Its very competitive

Counterfactual might not attribute to much more. Whereas in this case
the whole donation is a counterfactual.

## Concerns about making it to the US

With Data Science US route, there is a lot of prolty involved. But you
can increase your odds, by taking a masters. Also there is cananda,
also there is shares I could do, to grow the money, I have to take the
chance it looks like and I know people who are working for the US who
go there through L1 and who are managers here and reach insane heights
and 45 probably earns 500k and has 4 greencards for all his family
members.

If I am GREAT I should be ok? No idea what Great means, but that is
the next thing I should get clear.

It looks like there is always a way to get into the US, even top AI
labs, like Chris Olah did, how ever chris is a legend and I am not.


Eventually I will be good in rationality and statistics and
understanding claims. Perhaps trading is another option to grow
money. 

With just 3-4 years of a 250k donation a year, I can get to EA "base
level".


## Possibility to get back to EA?

Companies given by MSJ.

> Faunalytics does empirical research that could make use of data
> analysis. Humane League Labs does data analysis, but they've had a
> very small team for a long time, so I wouldn't count on them
> hiring. You could possibly get a grant from EA Funds or (ACE's
> research fund, if they start it up again) to do independent data
> analysis. The alternative protein space might use data analysis for
> marketing or whatever. RP is doing data analysis for other animal
> orgs (I think THL and MFA).



part-time research work

And not to worry about EA cause shit is competitive as hell, there
will be people to lift it up. So far atleast I am not founder
material, so I don't expect to be non-replaceable.

With the learned skills, Maybe I can still port to an EA job in the
future? but probably peter doesn't think that his old skills as a Data
Science allowed him to found.

## Value drift?

What can you test now? Define it, how much VD has there been so far,
but I worked 2hrs a day since the last 5 years on avg. I just need to
commit, once I commit everything is easy.

Stop thinking how "miserable" it is going to be in 5 years doing what
I do all the time, I mean what else would I want to be doing? dealing
with fucking girls problems, psuedo relationships have taught me
enough.

Value drift? Well what can I test now to know that I am going to be
ok? The general claim is it is hard to do this forever. How the fuck
do you know this... Over the last 5 yeasr I would be easily averaging
2 hrs a day. Wihtout flinching an eye.  I mean some days it is hard, I
think htat is cause I don't know what I am working on, even DP days I
think have been pretty good as they are engrossing. Vague shit is
hard, (like writing an essay and exploring what I need to do), not
knowing exactly what to do, and needing a pomodoro to help
you. Yesterday for example was shit. but today it seems ok. And leave
all feelings aside, for thelast 5 weeks I have been systematically
making comitments and almost succeeding at them. but the fact that I
am and continuing to do this... Stop thinging that 5 years from now I
will feel like this life suclks... shut up... I have made it in the
last 5 years. I am fine... This is in fact better than not having to
do anything and bve like pal and feel bored out of my shit. I have a
purpose bro.

I will become better at rationality alongside Data Science., I am
going to solve the problems with motivation. I am not going to have
value drift what that means... I am oging to ocntinue this being 1 day
I can plan an event, but if I don't that is great.


I often make the mistake of thinking about the future and saying oh I
wont have it ever, like women or value drift over time. But to all
those claims I say, look at the past. I am fine bro. I will be fine,
persuation, just stay away from it. It is strong, but know that once
you release the feeling is gone. 

PDC your self, always leave a line of retreat to be able to think of
the outcome even. 

## Masters vs L1? (maybe)




## Doing shares on the side could be an option, to grow money


## P.S

Quantity and then comes quality, god bless. Always. Just vomit and
then clean up. I came to the idea of fermi being off by 10 only
beacuse I wrote, so calm the fuck, down. It's the uninted
consequences of why we should continue writing, not sure which
direction to go. God bless.  also realizing that the way I want to
write and things start becoming clear when I do claim example type
stuff. God bless.
