## discussion about mom

**2-3 months back**

- mom had urinary tract infection, palpatations

- very anxious (they claim it's because of me)

- unable to sleep (awake for more than 2 hrs in the middle of the night)

- sent to psychiatrist, tablets (a bit under control)


**middle quitting tabs**

didn't have all tabs or something

- loss of apetite
- nausea
- unable to eat
- unable to sleep full night even (for a few days)
- unable to do anything tired etc.

**medicines she takes now and current status**

- lonazep 0.5mg 1 per day in addition to tabs for cholesterol, 

- able to walk 50 mins - 1 hr everyday

- eating well

- sleeping

- very anxious 2-5 days onces, where she suddenly gets palpatations,
  random nausea, 
  
- change of place seems better

**My question is about therapy and tablets, I am afraid**

Who to go to? are tablets the solution? It looks like 




**prisoner**

I don't think medicine will help her... She's probably depressed... 

talk about thoughts, 

hope

pscyologist in the US... indian back.. ask her mom.. professional, let
her think about it...

has no porpuse... 

older, her age, england indian, mom do you want to go to a spiritual,
don't push her...  50 years old.. knows the generaltion, not on her
team... 

ask her and then after a week!


## Me panindian pandian 

### example

**Week of 21st september**

- slowly started feeling pain in the ass after two days (23rd), pain
  becomes worse as it's midnight, sleep is fine that night, Limped
  entire 50 mins of walk on 24th, sep 25th, unable to stand on 2 leg,
  played basketball eventuall on 25th
  
- I run on sep 27th, left top leg seems to be giveing way, I am
  limping in a wierd way, Even on sep 29th there are remenants of it.
  
- on top of this my back has been spasming every day of week 21st, I
  can't sleep on my left side (for a while now).
  
- sitting on the bike hurts, I always need to adjust my ass, I don't
  know or understand what is up.

**Other things I am doing since then**

- running longer

- maybe my knees (maybe) feel be

- getting random arm not - usability's

- leg is blistering

- pain is staying for an entire week

**Frequency**

Aug 23rd new soles

	Aug 19th run 30 mins @ 5:46
	Aug 22nd run 43 mins @ 7:07
	
Aug 25th pain, aug 27th still can't do surya namaskar,

Aug 28th right leg still weak, pain exists on 29th morning

	Aug 28th shoulder blade hurts like a, random wrist pain
	Aug 29th started feeling much better
	Aug 29th run 39 mins @ 6:43
	Sep 2nd run 30 mins @ 5:48
	
	Sep 3rd pain in back of right hand (was hard to run to a point)

Sep 6th ran Sep 9th butt starts to hurt, (cancelled running) sep 10th
also cancelled running. Sep 11th ass still hurts.
	
	Sep 6th run 43 mins @ 7:00
	Sep 11th run 30 mins @ 5:09

	sep 16th arm pain is back (had difficulty running with this)

	Sep 15th Run 43 mins @ 6:30 (morning)
	Sep 17th Run 30 mins @ 5:32 (evening)
	
sep 21st to 27th as above back spasm during night

Sep 21st to sep 27th couldn't do much, pushed to shoot the ball a bit
(pain continues on sep 24th with hardening of ass, limped 50 mins of
walking on 24th)

	sep 21st ran 50 mins @ 6:30
	sep 27th ran 30 mins @ 5:32
	sep 30th ran 50 mins @ 6:11
	Okt 4th ran 30 mins @ 5:17

Oct 8th ran 55 mins and couldn't run again on oct 11th. I was very
sure I was not ready. Came back home and had rememnants. Right side
feels wierd, During running already, knees, right side were all aching
wierdly. Next day wake to feel pain, standing on one leg is not really
great. For example, unable to stand and talk without feeling some pain
for half an hour. Limping now and then at work
	
	Okt 8th run (55 mins @ 6:06)
	Okt 11th run (30 mins @ 5:19)


**claims:**

Pain lasts for about 5 days after running some times. (Sep 6th, sep
21st scenario)

I am not always in pain. It's when I walk stand sit on bike or get up
that I feel pain.

Every months I have one full proper 5 day episode.

2 weeks once I have some milder symptoms which also delay my running

**Plan**

OCA? I want to go in decmber to the US.

### 

Is it the same color!

change in behavior and thougths... 

hurt ... 


exact 
