---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "How to become GiveWell Material"
date: 02-08-2021
categories: posts
tags: data
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---

## Entry question

What are the steps I need to take to become an EA Researcher?

What is my current level: I have not really done independent
research. I have some exp with statistics, Data Science etc.

## Current level

| Year-mon | Org                        | Rounds     | People  |
|----------|----------------------------|------------|---------|
| Apr-2020 | CE-Intern                  | S-FTFI-WT  | 20/40   |
| Jun-2020 | HLI-Intern                 | S-WT       | -/30    |
| Jun-2021 | OpenPhil-Program-Assistant | S-WT       | -/-     |
| Jun-2021 | Elizabeth-Assistant        | S-FTFI     | 30/30   |
| Jul-2021 | RP-Researcher              | S-WT1-FTFI | 20/>100 |
| Jul-2021 | FP-Researcher              | S-HRI      | 25/>100 |

S--> Initial Screening
FTFI --> Face to Face Interview
WT --> Work Task
WT1 --> First Work Task
HRI --> HR Interview


## Literature review

**Forum replies MSJ**

**My Takeaways from your message are:**  
- Start with an internship. I will keep a lookout for RP's internship
  opening.
- Do a literature review or Cost-Effectiveness analysis on some
  EA-related topic (Look at Saulius's work).
- For survey related roles use Mixed-Models and reproduce "EA Survey
  Analysis" and find other insights from the data.
- There is another survey on wild animal suffering which needs
  analysis, and you can help me with the getting the data. Correct?

**Forum replies Saulius**

Study ecology?

**Peter Linkedin Message**

> I was wondering if you are able to point out "specific skills" that
> I need to improve on to become "top RP Material".

> Hi Thej,
>
> We thought you were a great candidate but unfortunately the round
> was very competitive and we decided we wanted to move forward with
> other candidates. We're unfortunately not able to provide any
> specific details about your application, but I'm glad you had a good
> experience.
>
> One of the best things applicants interested in roles at
> organizations like ours can do to improve their odds of being a
> successful researcher is to read and write independent research for
> the Effective Altruism Forum and get feedback from the community.
>
> It may also be good to acquire other credible credentials relevant
> to research at such organizations, like becoming a top forecaster on
> Metaculus or Good Judgement Open. I also recommend [this post](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/J7PsetipHFoj2Mv7R/notes-on-ea-related-research-writing-testing-fit-learning) by
> one of our researchers:
> 
>
> There are not currently any internship openings but we are planning
> another internship for Dec-Mar 2022. We will also have many more
> openings for permanent researchers.
>
> I definitely encourage you to apply to future roles. You can find
> them by following us on Twitter, LinkedIn, Facebook and/or via
> newsletter. Hopefully we can find a good fit for you.
>
> I hope that helps. Sorry I can't say more.
>
> Best, Peter

What are "specific skills"  that I need to improve on to become "top
RP Material"?

*General advice:*  

- Read and write independent research for the EA forum and get
  feedback from the community
- Credible credentials like top forecaster on Metaculus or Good
  Judgement Open.
- [This post](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/J7PsetipHFoj2Mv7R/notes-on-ea-related-research-writing-testing-fit-learning) by colleague  
- internships in the future

**[This post](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/J7PsetipHFoj2Mv7R/notes-on-ea-related-research-writing-testing-fit-learning)**

Writing: 
- writing with [Reasoning transparency](https://www.openphilanthropy.org/reasoning-transparency#Example_of_GiveWell_charity_reviews)
- posting on forum and facebook groups to get feedback

Research:
- etc...




**Ask me anything**

Rethink priorities AMA

**Notes from MichealA Forum post**



**RP skills I need to learn according to David**

What skills are required to become "RP/GW" material

- ability to read social science papers (academic papers in Lancet,
  Nature or Science) and comment on their methodologies, data quality,
  internal external validity 
- solid understanding of statistics and causal inference
- knowledge how to discount for trustworthiness of a paper
- "some orgs" might also want a relevant degree ^^
- Can do online courses, textbooks and material where you have lots of
  questions and feedback.

**My forum post: What people did to get to an internship and other**



**My failed indrews feedback**

**MSJ via forum messages**

- Start with an internship.
- Do a literature review or Cost-Effectiveness analysis on some
  EA-related topic (Look at Saulius's work).
- For survey related roles use Mixed-Models and reproduce "EA Survey
  Analysis" and find other insights from the data. (seems narrow)
- There is another survey on wild animal suffering which needs
  analysis, and you can help me with the getting the data.
- Provide feedback on the research of orgs, publicly or by asking for
  opportunities to review unpublished work.
- Sign up to orgs that allow you to be a reviewer (e.g., CE).

**Discussion with Alicia Wang from GW**

the job involves trying to gauge evidence, piecing together poor
evidence

- Understanding academic research, the strengths and weaknesses and
  guessing the effect size for the target population, 
  
- Cost-Effectiveness analysis -- splitting benefits and cost side for
  top charities. (e.g., interventions research page kinkaroo mother
  care report).
  
- Communicating in a transparent way probably what is promising and
  what you are uncertain about.
  
- courses from MIT are good and she "recommends it". She has done it
  in person
  
- ability to state the next steps, communicate clearly the uncertainty
    during work trials.

**Micheal Arid**


**Stephan**

- analytical mindset, critical thinking, advanced statistics
- discounting for uncertainty, economics background
- writing conversation notes
- quickly evaluating interventions (how many people have the disease
  and how much would it cost per person)
  
- focussed on efficiency
- literature pubmed, scholar, econ papers
- Cost-Effectiveness (botex)
- ability to read cochrane meta analysis.


## Blank

**Different sources**
1. Messages from eA forum
2. My Forum posts discussion
3. Peter's message
4. Internships and jobs I have failed at and their feedback
5. discussion with GiveWell people
6. interviews feedback/ discussion on what to do

**Skills needed?**

**Ideas as a result**
1. volunteering Jamie Harish or MSJ
2. Apply to assistant roles
2. Doing independent research
   Make Cost-Effectiveness estimates, prioritize cause areas, find
   best funding opportunities.
3. criticize others work
4. indulge in Bayesian thinking
5. forecasting improving
6. Work on statistics
7. Do course on GH&P at JPAL.


## So does that tell you what are the next steps to take?


## So how do you DP this shit?


> Deliberate practice is characterized by several elements, each worth
> examining. It is activity designed specifically to improve
> performance, often with a teacher's help; it can be repeated a lot;
> feedback on results is continuously available; it's highly demanding
> mentally, whether the activity is purely intellectual, such as chess
> or business-related activi- ties, or heavily physical, such as
> sports; and it isn't much fun.



## Miscellaneous

https://www.eaglobal.org/


## Saulius chat


> I didn't read your analysis, but I should say that jobs at
> organisations at OpenPhil are super competitive and hence it's
> unclear that even if you got the job, the difference between you and
> the next best person would be very big. Also, the counterfactual for
> you is earning to give which is probably better than the
> counterfactual for the next best researcher in that scenario. So if
> you look at it that way, even if you got the job, it's unclear that
> you would achieve more counterfactual impact. All of this is
> probably in your analysis, I'm just writting in case it's not.

The thing is earning to give is not as lucrative unless I can do it in
California. Me being in Holland will not get me 400k salaries in
forever. In addition to that, the whole H1B situation is really weird
and looking at purely the lottery for the visas I have a 50-60% of
staying there in the US working for >3 years. This significantly
reduces my earning to give impact. :(

And I get what you are saying. As long as I am "almost the same as the
next best researcher I displace", I might as well just earn to
give. But there is this whole ["displacement chain"](https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/nn4nPvxF59AAr2G2n/replaceability-with-differing-priorities#A_more_complete_picture) which I think
acts in my favor. I will have another look at these estimates that I
made, next week. I think with the estimates on the impact of being a
researcher, there are many guesses and I probably didn't discount as
generously as I should.

> Yeah, researching in my free time and doing assignments was very
> engaging for me as well. But actual work is very different from
> assignments because you are given very few instructions and need to
> figure out the best thing to do and then do it, but there is so much
> uncertainty in many directions.

Very interesting. I understand it is really hard work to puzzle
through all this uncertainty. At the outset it looks amazing that one
can "make sense" of all this uncertainty. Hopefully I get to try
something either through an internship or job, in case I decide to
push further in this direction.

Thanks for taking the time to make these comments. I really appreciate
them. I will take a good look back at my estimates.
