---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "YOLO: Traveling"
date: 03-02-2023
categories: posts
tags: data
permalink: /:title.html
published: true
---

## The Constraint is in your head

In earlier posts we learned that constraints simplify our decision
making. When I had the constraint of saving as many lives as possible,
it was easy for me to decide what to do. Go to the US? Hell's
yeah. However, now that I am without constraints, I am unsure of what
to do.

In the [last essay](/constriaint-in-head-2.html), we discovered that we cannot blindly accept
constraints or blindly adopt them like "having a baby" just because
others are doing it.

During all this we are the ones judging if a constraint is ok or
not. The constraint is seemingly in our own heads. 

Not only this, the constraint in our head has a tendency to change
with time, is sometimes hard to apply and get meaningful results, and
we can even discover new ones (ones that we currently are not aware
of).

## What makes a "great life"

I want to be happy, I don't want to be miserable and I want to be
excited about the future. Constraint Judge in my Head approves!

I think I am happiest when I play sport. It keeps me going back for
more. In a life where I sport everyday, I look forward to it and it
makes my day. I was recently living in a gated community and there
were 15 year old kids playing ball everyday. I played every day that I
was there, and this activity simply trumped everything else that I did
during that time (even playing with my niece or eating delicious
food).

Sports, climbing, ball, gym are my most favorite activities to do
regularly. Work is also exciting when it is new and when I am thinking
about how to solve a new problem. Running the same mind numbing
analysis over and over again is a big no.

This immediately draws me to the three types of lives that Martin
Seligman is talking about: the good life, the meaningful life and the
life of flow.

Because Flow and meaning are the ones that "generate lasting
happiness" I would look into these and try to somehow increase these
activities that have flow.

However an STM seems to detest that there are ways to increase flow
activities, but I need to know more. 

How does this help me make a decision on if I should stay in the
Netherlands or go to the US? If all I need is flow, I don't need lots
of money (I think) to generate flow. I.E., I don't need to slog to go
to the US (is what I am thinking).

Let's say this is a dead end (for now). Now What?

## Discovering new constraints

Recently I was watching a Tamil serial with my parents, where the
suggested constraint was "to live gauruvama" (live with the respect of
your fellow caste members), and that otherwise it was not a life worth
living. Lite, I'll pass.

My parents think the constraint for my life should be marriage and
kids. All this despite hearing my brother complain at that very same
moment about how problematic his life was (with dealing with his wife
and a kid). Lite, I'll pass.

My father thinks that I should slog the rest of my life in the US,
earn like my brother, become better, buy a house, buy a car, get
married and have kids. This is the constraint he proposed for me:
"chase the American dream or die trying". My father comes from an era
where he had to slog to make money and live this comfortable life. For
sure he gave me a great education and a reasonably great life, and
that is why he had to slog to get out of poverty and get to the stage
where he is now. But I am not in the same condition as my father was
30 years back (in poverty). I don't need to slog as much. I have a
decent job. I can just "settle" (not bother about career growth etc.,
just work and chill), if I wanted to. Again. Lite, I'll pass.

An STM suggested to think of YOLO. Hmm. Yes "you only live once". This
does constrain the solution space in general. It tells me what I
should not do at least. For example, I have no intention of being in
the US for the next 20 years working 80 hrs a week with 15 day
vacations per year. But does YOLO tell you anything about going to the
US or staying in the Netherlands?

## YOLO 

With YOLO am getting/discovering many constraint ideas (many potential
constraints that I need to investigate).

Does this mean I should "travel"? "Focus on climbing"? "Focus on
music" and join a choir group? Focus on becoming a top influencer with
100k followers? What does it mean?

This is getting out of hand. Let's narrow the scope and analyse
each constraint with the Constraint Judge in my head. Starting with
the constraint ("I have to travel").

## YOLO: Travel

I am really excited about astronomy or anything that has to do with
the beauty of this universe and the meaning behind it. I get lost when
I see multitude of stars in the dark but well-lit sky. There have been
days when I bike to the country side in my city and stop at a point
where the street lamps don't work. This is the perfect place to
appreciate the unadorned sky, gazing upwards in awe at its random
beauty.

So why am I telling you all this? I am thinking Travelling for me is
about enjoying the beauty of nature. I want to go to Turkey,
Antarctica, Australia, Iceland, Japan etc. I want to go on great hikes
that then end in some insane views. I went with my friend in
California for a small hike 10km from the Golden Gate Bridge. My god,
what a view. I want to experience more of this.

I don't want to go to Barcelona and Italy and look at architecture. I
don't want to go to Amsterdam and go on top of a building and use a
swing for 2 minutes and pay 100 bucks. I don't want to do the classic
touristy things. Nature is king. Country side boat trips instead of
touring the busy streets of the Amsterdam Red Light Districts.

I want to go stargazing and see all the different planets and stars. I
want to try the digital nomad lifestyle for 1-2 months a year, and
live in a different country like the Philippines or Indonesia. I also
want to go camping and rock climbing in nature.

On the other hand I have never really done "traveling" of this
nature. I usually prefer friends company and chilling rather than
doing these things. One hike here and there is fine. Perhaps I should
try doing something like this to know if I like this. 

Let's just say 4k`$` per year for traveling for now (one skiing trip,
one climbing trip, one weekend trip, and one trip to India). (I mean
it could cost 10k`$` or even 100k`$`. As my friend says, sometimes if you
don't have the money, the solution is not to chase and go for more
money, just simply don't do that activity.)

As I write this, I am also questioning if "traveling" is worth the
price and if there is something far more superior I would like to
engage in, that is potentially cheaper, like playing ball
everyday. The later is far more appealing to me compared to traveling
to Antarctica but almost equally as appealing when I think of camping
in nature to climb everyday.

So where does this fit in the grand scheme of things? To US or not to
US? Money and time seem to be the two currencies that are being dealt
with here. With US, money will be in abundance but I doubt time will
be available (15 days per year). And in the Netherlands I think money
wont be in abundance but time will be (30 days normally, and if I work
4 days a week I could do up to 80 days per year). I think with
Netherlands, 4k`$` per year for traveling might be possible to set
aside, 2 years from now. Which is great.

Netherlands-1; US-0. [Savvy](https://www.google.com/search?q=captain+jack+sparrow+savvy+meaning&rlz=1C5GCEM_enNL1039NL1039&sxsrf=AJOqlzVD6emkHCnz6KrD9dOHeXtM_yjaXQ%3A1675801365966&ei=FbPiY8nIOvCTseMP4c2-8AY&ved=0ahUKEwiJp4fJnoT9AhXwSWwGHeGmD24Q4dUDCA8&uact=5&oq=captain+jack+sparrow+savvy+meaning&gs_lcp=Cgxnd3Mtd2l6LXNlcnAQAzIJCAAQFhAeEPEEMgUIABCGAzIFCAAQhgMyBQgAEIYDMgUIABCGAzIFCAAQhgM6BAgAEEc6BQgAEIAEOgYIABAWEB46CAgAEBYQHhAKSgQIQRgASgQIRhgAUKgBWNIIYJYJaABwAngAgAFtiAGcBZIBAzYuMZgBAKABAcgBCMABAQ&sclient=gws-wiz-serp#:~:text=And%20if%20you%27ve,27%2DApr%2D2015)?

## Other things to explore in the next posts

1. Other constraints from YOLO
2. how persuasion is part of the picture?
3. what about flow?
4. Why I wanted to come to the US (to make money)?
