## Taboo the word purpose

> How do I make decisions? What do I do? **There is no purpose
> anymore**


## guiding us in the big decisions and guiding us in the day to day


My ragavan instinct is telling me that there are two things now. One
to guide us on the big decisions. Do we need to go to US or do we need
to just stay put. 

And then still the constraint needs to tell us what to do on the day to day, and somehow it needs to satisfy or somehow make me "happy". Then I feel it comes back again to the same things, postive affectivities.


With the presence of EA it was about becoming great, making more money. Day to day this meant, grind as hard as you can (capped at 4 hrs), and then work towards one of the things and try to be great innit. 


Not the constraint didn't necessarily do anything to make me happy. :(

la hilla la hilla


## Things I enjoy

Walking and allowing myself to think and while coming back haveing a healthy dose of his holinesses podcase. 

My ragavn instinct tells me to 

## It's just a fad postive psychology


## how to do what you love

## solution is inside your head

Basic points are that no matter what you will use the solution inside
your head to determine if the presented solution is acceptable or not.

2. This changes over time... Previously slaves were ok and now they
   are not.

3. We need to uncover more of the solution

## Constrains

The lack of it not helping us make decisions? My brother has it easy,
he needs this job to care for his daughter. My dad had to grind and grind
even on saturdays, why so that he could provide for his family. 

Now that I don't really have constraints what do I do? What do 

purpose aka constraints lol. yeah ea didn't tell me what to do exactly
but for sure it constrained the space. la hilla la hila!

Girls lite, spending too much time with freinds lite... grind mukiyam bigiley yes.


“Meaning”, in the sense of clear decisions without regret, comes from
constraints. Nobody can compute the best actions for the
future. People rely on existing constraints to simplify their
decisions, and they usually have a lot of constraints. This suggests
that, to feel like we have “meaning”, we need to add constraints, not
just remove them.

But we don’t want to add random constraints, especially not the
conventional ones we’ve worked hard to overthrow (such as needing to
get promotions or two kids or a big house). What to do? How to design
our constraints, our decisions, our lives? Once we have constraints,
how to actually take lots of action and feel excited about things?


## So rant

What I am thinking is that, ok purpose lite, guidance? maybe...


What do I expect? Something that guides me. previously i had this
thing

I don't see the value of tabooing it.


None of this shit is helping me figure out what I should be doing. I
thought I had uncovered what I should be doing.

But STM things thats not the right answer. hmmm.


Why?


But "flow" state is something I enjoy. Currently I feel miserable with
many things, except one thing. All hail the gym. I know if I go to the
gym, I'll feel awesome (only for the time I am there) Time doesn't
stop for me, but I can easily spend 2 hours and not even realize it.

Same thing if I go to the climbing gym. Spending 2-3 hrs is a piece of
cake and I like to do it regularly.


however work is not exactly like that. Although 2-3 hrs vanicshes
quickly I don't have that same feeling of returning to
it. Unfortunately,


but stm thinks this is a dead end? why?

this is actually stressing me out. Oh man a full essay. Lol within one
day Skipping the gym?

have you had any success in packing flow activities back to back? or
is it even possible to keep doing such activities?

Why don't you design your life with such activities.

First of all you need to be good (which means there is a lot of shit
you need to endure).


CONSTRAINTS the lack of it not helping us make decisions.


## Now we don't have any constraints?

Well we do have this "solution inside our head"

But it has some flaws (it can change or we can uncover the truth), 

Also it is vague?

1. This changes over time... Previously slaves were ok and now they
   are not.

2. We need to uncover more of the solution


At this point it's not enough. It doesn't do us much good. Still the
answer to the question "should I go to the US" is not a resounding YES
or NO. It's muffled, Its still talking about pros and cons and
shit. Fuck that. 


##  How do we add contratraints?

Can we add constraints? Is this even going to happen?

## What if we get no constraints?

How do I be happy? do constraints help me choose the path to happiness?


## I feel responsible for their happiness and I gues they feel the
same


How to engage with parents. I don't haev bandwidth to put mask for the
kid next to me when I am gonig through shit myself.
