---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "YOLO"
date: 03-02-2023
categories: posts
tags: data
permalink: /:title.html
published: false
---


## The Constraint is in your head

In earlier posts we saw that constraints make our decision making
easy. When my ~~purpose~~ constraint was to save as many lives as
possible, it was very easy for me to decide what to do. Go to the US?
Hell's yeah. 

Unfortunately, I don't have those constraints no more. Now that I am
constraint less, what do I do? In the [last essay](/constriaint-in-head-2.html), we realized
that we cannot blindly accept constraints, nor can we randomly take
constraints like "having a baby" just because four billion other
people are doing it. 

During all this we are the ones judging if a constraint is ok or
not. The constrain is seemingly in our own heads.

Not only this, the constraint in our head has a tendency to change
with time, are sometimes hard to apply and get meaningful results, and
we can even discover new ones (ones that we currently don't know
about).

## Designing constraints to have a "great life"

Remember, the constraint judge is in your head. 

The basics are that I want to be happy, I don't want to be miserable
and I want to be excited about the future. Constraint Judge In my Head
approved. 

But what does it mean?

How does it help me make a decision on if I should stay in the
Netherlands or go to the US?

I don't have any more constraints but I can discover them. 

Recently I was watching a tamil serial, where they thought the
~~purpose~~ constraint of their life was "to live gauruvama" (you have
to live so that people from your caste respect you), otherwise it was
not worth living. So do as your cast members would do. Lite I'll pass.

My parents think the constraint of my life that will be most useful is
to get married and have children. All this despite hearing at that
very same moment how problematic my bros life was (with dealing with
his wife and a kid). Lite I'll pass.

An STM suggested to think of YOLO. Hmm. Yes you live only once.


## The constraints in my head

Here, I want to be happy. I don't want to be miserable. I want to be
excited about the future.

This immediately draws me to the three types of lives that Martin
Seligman is talking about, [the good life, the meaningful life and the
life of flow](/new-year-new-me-2.html).

Because Flow and meaning are the ones that "generate lasting
happiness" I would look into these. And try to somehow raise the flow
levels.

I will not kid. I think I am happiest when I play sport. It keeps me
going back for more. In a life where I sport everyday, I look forward
to it, it makes my day. I was recently in big community and there
there were 15 year old kids playing ball everyday. I played for three
days and it was great fun. I really look forward to something "social"
and sporty. Gym is fun, but it is a very lonely sport, I do prefer
social sports like basketball or climbing. 

However an STM seems to detest it, I need to know more. Because here I
am thinking this is science, it is a fact. 


## The constraints from others

Recently I was watching a tamil serial, where they thought the
~~purpose~~ constraint of their life was "to live gauruvama" (you have
to live so that people from your caste respect you), otherwise it was
not worth living. Lite I'll pass.

My parents thing constraint of my life is to get married and have
companion. Lite I'll pass. Do they even realize how painful it is for
them or for their DIL and Son to deal with their daughter?

An STM thinks YOLO should help generate some constraints. YOLO
constrains the space a bit. It's interesting. 

What does yolo do? YOLO tells me suntings... It says something like
what are the things you want to do before you die? Then I am thinking
things like "traveling". What do I mean by traveling? 

YOLO also means I would need money to do things. Hmmm! how much money?

Does that mean I should go to the US and come back in a bit? ok. Let's
see. 

Everything so far is vague as hell. 


## YOLO

What does YOLO mean? I live only once. I owe it to myself to not be
stuck in spending the next 20 years grinding and having the best
career trajectory in an Investment Banking firm working 80hrs a week. 

I want to have an exciting life. Filled with many activities. 


Travel?
Climbing on real rocks?
Music? Sing in a choir?
Instagram followers?
Be fit?
live long?
Happy?

Don't have kids?
Don't marry?
No girlfriend?
What about sex?


## What excites me?

Sports, climbing, ball, gym doing it regularly everyday. Work is also
exciting when it is new, when I am thinking about how to solve a new
problem. Running the same mind numbing analysis over and over again
big no. 

I am really excited about astronomy or anything that has to do with
the beauty of this universe. I get lost when I see multitude of
stars. There have been days when I bike to the country side and stop
at a point where the street lamps dont work and just look up and be
impressed at this creation (it's meaning). this is new I think and
perhaps has to do with what an stm said last year when we were
high. "It was a crime to stop and enjoy the beauti of clouds or this
earth", not anymore. :) I think I am an impressionable kid. I take
these things to heart. 

So why was I telling you all this? I am thinking Travelling. I want to
go to Turkey, Antarctica, Australia, Iceland, I want to go on these
great hikes that then show you some insane views. I went with my
friend in California for a small hike 10km from the GGB. My god, what
a view. And the whole hiking process and talking to him, dealing with
the challenges of wet soil with absolutely shit shoes was just simply
awesome. 

I don't want to go to Barcelona and Italy and look at the
architecture. I don't want to go to Amsterdam and go on top of a
building and use a swing for 2 mins and pay 100 bucks and also get a
photo. I don't want to do the classic touristy things. Nature thala I
think. 

I think I would love to stargaze sometime, and just stare at the
beauty of this creation and identify all the different planets and
stars. 

As much as an STM says otherwise, when I am focused I don't care
about them, or the lack of them. But when I "don't have focus" aka
constraints, I would like to engage with women. It gives me a unique
pleasure. 

## How much of this is persuation?
