

I believe in the effective altruism principles. I would like to do the
most good possible in my life time. 

I will be honest with you, I am not totally on board with protecting
fish mentally but from thinking about it, it is clear that it you
improve the quality of life of 1 million fish a year that should
amount to something. 

I am absolutely scope insensitive.




My goal with this internship is to learn more about and support
research on aquatic life.

I bring data analysis and research skills. In the time when I don't do
my full time work


## cover

I am committed to working by the effective altruist principles to do
the "most good" in my life. And that is the reason I spend 20-30 hrs a
week, in addition to my regular work to get better in "critical
thinking", "statistics", blogging etc. Seeking to not be scope
insensitive, and to potentially reduce the suffering of trillions of
sentient beings, I apply to this internship. I hope to learn more
about and support research on aquatic life.

I bring a wide variety of skill sets from research to data analysis to
writing. I enjoy digging through scientific studies and understanding
their internal and external validity. Regarding data analysis, I am
capable of going from web-scraping to delivering insights from the
scraped data. I have 2+ years of research experience albeit in other
fields, and 4+ years of work experience in the semiconductor industry
(where I regularly interact with stakeholders to deliver modules). I
am used to working with minimal supervision and independently, in my
research and at work.

I am flexible with the time spent on the internship per week. For
example, I can work upto 5 hours per weekday at one day's notice and
more in the weekends.

I am a hard worker and I believe my recommendations (listed in the cv)
are a testament to my learning ability and capability. I look forward
to hearing from you.

