
	
## Mission

>Mission #2: Collect actual, everyday instances where you fell short
>because of lack of "critical thinking" (why am I putting "critical
>thinking" in scare quotes?) and divide them into skills. No abstract
>skills like "logical structure" or "critical thinking". Concrete
>instances where you failed. That will give you harsh feedback. If you
>stop failing, it means your deliberate practice is working. If not,
>it means it's not working, even if you think you're doing
>great. NINRTT. Then, come up with rough deliberate practice plans for
>the skills based on the three models.
>
>For example, one skill could be "not accepting a claim without
>empirical evidence". Concrete situations where you may have failed in
>this could be "I didn't spend much this month" (but you didn't even
>look at the actual debits on your bank account) or "the gym will be
>open till 9pm" (and you go there and find out it closed at 5pm
>because of Fall break, which you could have looked up on the
>website). So, the obvious feedback is that you don't make such
>mistakes because of lack of empiricism. Another quicker form of
>feedback is perhaps a daily counter for the number of empirical
>sources you've looked up. (Notice how hard it is to get exact
>feedback for bad thinking? It happens without us even
>realizing. Getting good feedback is a problem that needs to be
>solved.)
>
>10 skills. 10 concrete instances for each + DP detailed
>plan. 3k words. 1 week.
  
## What do I need to do

- Write several instances where your thinking failed you

- Identify the skills from those instances.

- Provide a point-by-point training session design. Just like your
  workout schedule where you know the entire plan for the week, month even.
  
- We need to design our own practice sessions as these are not well
  established techniques like in sports to improve performance.

- There are 2 key aspects : 
	
	- doing something you couldn't do earlier 
	
		Like say gaining the ability to do Data Science or critical
        thinking like never before for example.
		
	- and then doing it on demand
		
		Like, knowing about scope sensitivity and applying it
        everytime you see there is an opportunity. Knowing the
        scienctific method and applying it everysingle time to
        understand or predict things.
	
- as said before I think I am good to go! what is the point of
  Critical thinking anyway? Where can I improve? Do I need to even
  improve?
  
## Skills
### Not accepting claims without evidence

> Today I came across a video, and I have been seeing videos like this
> on Facebook. A song runs in the background, a very meaningful song,
> that always brings me to tears. This song is backed by beautiful
> montages of this guy bowing down, folding his hands (being humble),
> helping people and so on. All these indicating his loyalty to a
> certain x-chief minister. I sort of went on with it, meanwhile
> creating beliefs that he must be a very nice humble guy. All of this
> based on a video? It was pointed to me, later that these are
> sponsored. And (only) then I woke up from my trans. You won't believe it,
> even as I am writing this article on the importance of empirical
> evidence, I went with the flow and started believing the image of
> the person it was casting. Let me off the hook, what if the millions
> of people watching this, fall for this? And end up voting for
> someone whom they believe to be of certain characteristics (based on
> a stupid video)? ---from a post in 2016

My friend was cooking on a teflon pan which had much of its teflon
removed over usage. And he said, "eating teflon is not injurious to
health". Without any hesitation I have been eating that food for 2
years now. In another instance my friend said, "slightly burnt food is
carcinogenic". I ran away from "carcinogenic food" ever since. I didn't
even check it. I didn't need to?

I stopped wearing earplugs because I was afraid they would cause ear
infection and suffered a plethora of distraction. The difference is
quite a lot with and without this device.

There are a lot of students and people in my city who smoke. Usually
while biking, or driving cars or outside buildings (almost in front of
the door). During all these times I have come to experience
frustration even if it is passive smoking for less than 10 seconds a
day. I hold my breadth, curse the guys who are smoking and keep
walking. But somehow if people smoke weed I don't have any
problem. Hell I would smoke it even with them, you know cause of the
aura around weed. But suprise motherfucker joints usually have 30-50%
of tobacco. meh! its ok! Allias paradox? Well before that I just
accept claims as a result of the influx of info around me. There is
nothing emperical about it.

I drink protein shake twice a day for a while now. I have just
accepted that it is ok! For the third time in the day I get protein
from another source. 

Drinking beer every week to the exact amount I drink, should cause no
harm to my health over the long term. Pfff! it gets off your system in
the form of piss. The point is, given the opportunity, I wouldn't
hesitate to drink often. In India last year, I drank 4-5 times in a
week. Hmmm, so what is good for you again? I accept implicitly that as
long as I am not a drunkard (someone who has to drink everyday) --- I
consider my self a social drinker --- I will be in exceptional health.

I will find a house in the next 10 days if I put all my effort in
it. So far it has been a long long while and it is very hard to find a
house. 

That I will find a job in less than 3 months once my company goes
bankrupt and that that time will be peaceful. The last time I found a
job took me a few months of practice followed by 3 months to land a
job. With experience it might be easier (which is the case now), but
considering the process times taken by companies, it could be a real
big nightmare.

> I believed that global warming was taking place as a result of human
> interaction. Today it was pointed to me that something that I took
> it for granted, that humans are causing global warming, might not
> really have a whole lot of science behind it. My takeaway is that I
> need to get back to the facts before assuming certain
> things. ---From an post I wrote in 2016

**Impact of lack of such a skill**

In all of the above cases, it appears that it is quite important to
know the truth as I care extremely much about my health and my
long-term happiness. Researching before accepting claims as
evidence could benefit me quite a bit.

**So how do I improve this?**

'Not accepting a claim without empirical evidence (EE)', is easy. The skill
as such is straight forward, it is the applying of it on demand or
unconsciously at random times of the day which is the main problem. In
any case it looks like 1. it requires training to identify such claims,
and 2. the training to look up or determine the EE. 

**What does EE or lack there of look like?**

Improving the first part 'identifying claims that have no
emperical evidence' seems like it is similar to the music model,
i.e., high focused repetition of task. So how would the DP of this
look like?

I could start by saying I will be conscious and collect 100 claims
without EE in day to day conversations by the end of the week. The
idea I think is to train the brain to notice the claims being made and
separating them as ones with evidence and ones without. But I reckon
it will be hard, although forced with a deadline, I reckon it will be
mind numbingly hard to stay focussed on every conversation and every 
thought in an attempt to meet the goal of 100 claims. Hmmm, so it is
going to be painfull, and in large numbers and your focus is probably
going to be only about this. That seems about right. This way we can
initiate the training process.

Another method could be to look at a source, a text or anything, and
determine the claims without and with EE. So this source could be
everything from the news, news comedies, political discourses, opinion
speeches, articles on life, religious preachings, my own writings,
writing of rationalists etc... I would like to keep the source
spanning various fields so that I can get a different ratios of claims
with EE and without EE. For example, Religious preachings/debates,
flat-earth discussions will give you a taste of predominantly claims
without EE, and writings of Eliezer Yudkowsky, Paul Graham and STM
could give you a taste of claims with EE. Differentiating all of them,
seems like it will help and would allow practicing in large volume. In
addition, I could as an everyday task, identify 10 claims made during
the lunch conversation and 5 claims made during the rest of the day
during interactions with colleagues. This becomes like in the music
model, you would like to practice at home in high volume, but you
would also like to play shows or play for an audience (on demand). On
demand, as in where required.

**But what about feedback?**

During both the methods the surprises I get now and then could be
feedback about how bad/good I am. Engaging in questioning and
evaluating if something has EE or not could in itself be instructive
(in case obtaining feedback is hard). For both the above proposed
methods, following it up with a blog post to explain why something has
EE and something doesn't have EE will help. This can be used to get
feedback from external readers once in a while. This feedback will
tell you if the direction you are steering in is right or wrong and
where you need focus.

**More**

In piano playing the way to become a master at playing a piece usually
starts with slowly reading the piece and playing it, no tempo
nothing. And then once you get the hang of it, we work on tempo, and
then add more details as we get better. In our situation I think we
should do the same. We should intially read an essay of 1k words with
the sole purpose of identifying 'claims with/without EE'. After a few
days when I forget what the article was about, I do the same 1k words
within a tighter time limit. This way I can test if I am getting better.

**What if there are some types of claims that you don't notice?**

There is a chance that I don't notice some of the 'claims without
evidence', in that case it would be nice to have external feedback
from someone who is better than you once in a while and focus training
to identify exactly that.

**Training to determine EE**

I would expect from me to determine EE for 1k claims. Obtaining claims
shall be easy. I can take them from my own life or the sources
suggested above. Determining EE for different types of claims would be
different. If the claim is that 'eating teflon is good', then I would
look at sources like stackexchange to give me info. If the claim was
that 'climate change is a hoax', I would spend time reading a couple of
articles I can find on Google that have citations and look into those
citations and check if the articles are credible. Opinion posts shall
be avoided as much as possible.

I guess the best way to go about it is to gather all the claims to be
investigated (atleast a 100 of them), classify them roughly on the
basis of the method of expected method of finding EE. And then take
each class and practice. This should be done on 1000's of claims
atleast. Finally a post on the different methods of finding EE with
concrete examples, with identifying what counts as EE.

**Feedback**

How would I know if I have the right EE or not? Well I guess I might
need to go with the same explanation that it is hard to know, but the
intense study of these things should in themselves be instructive. Of
course like always, when in doubt or when you would like feedback in
certain aspects, it is best to write a post and ask some one better
than you to evaluate and give feedback on how to get better and take
it from there.

I keep track of the number of hours I spend on writing/blogging, and
also the number of hours I clock everyday to do useful work. This I
often look back at, to see my average, how good I did for the week,
which day I slacked off and why and see if I can find patterns and
correct my behavior. And feel good when I have exceeded or maintain
the standard I have set for myself. In a similar way feedback for
these can be thought of as well. The number of claims that I should
theoretically come across should be very similar with every week. So,
if I record the number of claims that I encountered per day, the
number of claims I looked for EE and the number of claims I
successfully found EE for, then over a week I have statistics. And
logging this over time, I could get a lot of feedback about my
progress, and level. 

### Solving problems in life

I see that I want my thinking to be able to solve all my problems to
the best extent possible. Some of the problems I see myself constantly
facing everyday are categorized as:

#### doing somethings despite evidence and hoping for results

Here i think the skill is mainly to note tht such frustration is
happening. To DP this, it would mean to train to be aware of such
situations. Where the hell can I find a googleplex of such issues?
Story books? give me one example, boye! or the news? where people do
the same thing over and over again


Forcing me to come up with evidences around me, in the world in the
news per day. Where people commit the same problem again and again and
see hope for different results.

One example could be to come up with all the instances when I do this,
when my friends do this, 


example, engaging in drama again and again, hoping for a gf in a girl
who has pretty much given up on you again and again!, Where I do the
same thing over and over again.. It is good if you do something else
and then thats great. 

Walking on a mine field with my colleague for example, 
#### Procrastinating on important things

Probably because it is a hard problem to solve. I usually
procrastinate on these. How do I do DP on this?

Where can I find a googleplex of problems to solve in a particular
domain.  I seem to think solving problems in a particualar domain
would need domain knowledge and so I tend to group things
together. but somehow once I group them, then I am unable to find a
large number of problems to work on. The concept of DP is all about
pracicing specific skills. 

So I don't want to procrasitnate on things that are important. This
could be divided as improving my ability to solve problems at
will. Is it cool if I work on some random math problems? The problems
I have in life are abundant, so I try something and I will get
feedback if I solved it or not. This I can apply by making a lost of
all my problems and going after it one after the other, with the
strict focus of predicting a solution. Trying the solution should give
feedback. So for example a training session would look like, making a
list of 50 problems to solve, and then taking them on one per day and
writing a solution for it as far as we can get and see how the
solution fares in real life.

#### Making better predictions
#### inability to solve problems related to motivation

**How to get better at solving problems like the above?**

Just trying to solve the problem is not enough. You need to break it
down into skills and apply it in particular ways. The chess model
sugests the use of test cases and compare your perfromance to the
actual performance


Making better predications for example, seems to require you to predict
many things and test how you fared and learn from that.  but what will
you predict? I just want to make sure I am motiavted
regularly. Solving it means taking action, making an hypothesis
narrowly and then testing it. if it works you get a point if it
doens't you don't.

### Solving problems at work

I was asked to deal with a trouble ticket which I had barely any
experience with. I had a quick look to come back to my DL to explain
to him what the deal was and as expected I stammered. I stuttered. I
was slightly all over the place. I was not clear in my head, atleast I
couldn't see the flow of thoughts. The following skills are what I see
that I am missing:

- inability to communicate what is in the head in a systematic way (STAR)

- inability to solve an unknown problem (by asking the right questions)

	Well you don't need to solve an unknown problem, but you need to
    be able to ask the right questions to get more information about
    an unknown problem.
	

Further today, the problem was escalated and I am unable to form
hypothesis or even know where to look. I am trying to look back at the
events, it is all a blur. way too much information. Where as my DL is
on high alert, he is able to see everything. Of course he had more
domain knowledge but I didn't even know how to go about it. It was
hard to even propose a direction. The direction could be to learn more
about this or that even, but I didn't manage it. It was hard to
understand propose hypothesis and solve the problem. Atleast I need
time. I also refused to do some digging work as it would have low
returns, like digging through documents after documents.

- inability to apply the scientific method

- lack of domain knowledge

- inability to do some beuracratic work to get more info.


**The skill**

The skill here seems to be that of solving any problem with limited
knowledge, guessing what knowledge I would need (asking the right
questions, and further solving them). 

**How to DP**

I think it is exactly like the chess model. In application to business
it is called the case study. Each problem is different and fortunately
for me there are tons of trouble tickets dating forever into the
past. So I can choose some topic where I want to improve in and work
on each and every trouble ticket. The TT's are written such that the
operator writes his observations and then the engineer writes what he
looked at and suggests a solution. Following the chess model would
mean to look at each step in the TT and propose the next step and
compare with what the engineer actually did. As for feedback:

>Real world as it is makes it hard to evaluate which of the proposed
>solutions is better. In any case the process of focusing on the
>problem and evaluating solutions is in itself instructive. 

Maybe I could join the trouble shooting team which is all about
solving problems but the method of observation, forming hypothesis,
asking the right questions to get knowledge etc... In this way, I will
actively be applying the scientific method as the number of tickets
are aplenty, and in each stage of solving the ticket, I will be
proposing actions for people to agree on, which will give me feedback
on how I am doing. 


### Explaining things clearly
<!-- dealing with unknown problems -->
I was asked to deal with a trouble ticket which I had barely any
experience with. I had a look at it and had come back to my DL to
explain to him what the deal was and as expected I stammered, I
stuttered. I was slightly all over the place. I was not clear in my
head, atleast I couldn't see the flow of thoughts. In the end I
managed, owing to making notes in notebook (observation, hypothesis,
questions about domain knowledge).

<!-- getting better at applying the scientific method -->
Had a meeting with my boss and another colleague (same age,background
everything), to discuss an issue and how to solve it. I sucked, the
colleague who was into these kinds of trouble shooting didn't suck at
all, my boss was on top of everything. I was surprised my colleague was
this good, in the sense that he was able to propose hypothesis and
quickly look at pros and cons with a neat focus on the goal. Whereas I
had a bowl of thoughts being tossed inside my head, struggling to make
any reasonable contribution.

<!-- So inability to state a narrow falsifiable hypothesis and
verify it -->
Another time with moderate understanding of tolerance trains I spent
several hours with myself trying to puzzle something out. In the end I
never got to the end. I was going in circles unable to understand if
what I came up with was right or wrong. I was unable to communicate it
to others. I tried. I sucked, many times. I was not able to prove or
disprove something that I had in mind and was struggling to convey
even to myself. 

<!-- inability to explain what I have in my head to other or to myself -->


Many times I find myself in a situation where I need to explain to
people what I have in mind and why it is better than the other choices
and typically or atleast the ones that are complex with quite some
information quickly I loose track or atleast need a second chance to
start over. I go to a point where I just don't know what to
do. Chances are I was thrown in something I had no knowledge in and
the shear magnitude of meeting the crazy requirement was getting to my
head. But what I ask for is not the ability to solve the problem, I
ask for the ability to ask the right questions to help solve the
problem, I ask for the ability to have a good understanding of what
the situation entails, what the observations are and what are possible
hypotheses and why (not exactly this but something like this).

I think I need structure, a way of structuring my thoughts. Atleast
that is one part of it, the other is solving more problems in the
domain, which I will take up in the next section.

**How to DP?**

I think this follows the music model where we have now isolated the
lack of framework and aim to improve it. I just want to practice the
framework, which I suspect will help me organize my thoughts and
explain complex phenomenon. I think I should start with writing and
slowly progress towards speaking (as required).

So we would like to practice in high volume, i.e., explain complex
concepts in high volume. As for the framework I want to try to use,
the one that is provided in [criticalthinking.org](criticalthinking.org/) looks like a
place to start and see how I fare. As for the list of high volume
complex concepts, I think these can be found in [lesswrong.com](lesswrong.com), or
the fan-fiction written by Eliezer, 'Harry Potter and the Methods of
Rationality'. If the level is too high, maybe I can begin with
explaining political news or explaining the TED talk on cardio, for
example. Speaking can also entail the same exercise. This way I can
gain large amounts of practice. 

**What about feedback?**

The obvious feedback would be for you see yourself doing better in
situations that you sucked before. As I will be writing essays,
probably an STM could give feedback. After a few days I could read it
myself to gauge (vaguely) how the essay is. After a few days I could
write on the same topic again and compare my first and second attempt.

**What do you mean Critical thinking.org framework?**


### identifying skills

<!-- dealing with unknown problems --> I was asked to deal with a
trouble ticket which I had barely any experience with. I had a look at
it and had come back to my DL to explain to him what the deal was and
as expected I stammered, I stuttered. I was slightly all over the
place. I was not clear in my head, atleast I couldn't see the flow of
thoughts. In the end I managed, owing to making notes in notebook
(observation, hypothesis, questions about domain knowledge). The
following skills are what I see that I am missing:

- inability to communicate what is in the head in a systematic way (STAR)

- inability to solve an unknown problem (by asking the right questions)

	Well you don't need to solve an unknown problem, but you need to
    be able to ask the right questions to get more information about
    an unknown problem.
	
Had a meeting with my boss and another colleague (same age,background
everything), to discuss an issue and how to solve it. I sucked, the
colleague who was into these kinds of trouble shooting didn't suck at
all, my boss was on top of everything. I was surprised my colleague was
this good, in the sense that he was able to propose hypothesis and
quickly look at pros and cons with a neat focus on the goal. Whereas I
had a bowl of thoughts being tossed inside my head, struggling to make
any reasonable contribution.

- inability to apply the scientific method to solve problems where
  information is all over the place, lot of information (more like an
  investigation)

- lack of domain knowledge

- inability to do some beuracratic work to get more info.

<!-- So inability to state a narrow falsifiable hypothesis and
verify it -->
Another time with moderate understanding of tolerance trains I spent
several hours with myself trying to puzzle something out. In the end I
never got to the end. I was going in circles unable to understand if
what I came up with was right or wrong. I was unable to communicate it
to others. I tried. I sucked, many times. I was not able to prove or
disprove something that I had in mind and was struggling to convey
even to myself. 

- inability to make and test narrow falsifiable hypotheses 

<!-- inability to explain what I have in my head to other or to myself -->

I often have heard that you understand something when you are able to
make another person understand what you know. Today I was talking to a
colleague, who suggested he would be doing cardio 2 times a week for 1
hr and would hope to reduce weight keeping everything else constant. I
was like, I stuttered stammered, didn't get anywhere. This informs me
that I suck at the science of cardio. 

- inability to understand complex concepts (to be tested by
  application and /or prediction)

### Not committing the allias paradox

I think I am committing the allias paradox. 

Scene A:I spent 1k euros without flinching in a month on uber, beer,
buying clothes and paying for my license.

Scene B: I need to buy a hand sanitizer for 2.5€ and I am hesitating
if I should buy it (not considering that it could save me from falling
sick at work).

I don't understand the value of money and have a very contrasting view
of it. This is a problem that needs to be solved by itself. But this
is how my allias paradox looks.

If I do not want to commit the allias paradox what should I do?

### Understanding things

Cardio failing to understand it.

## skills 2

### Appling theory to life

### Becoming better at rationality

### Inability to organize information in my head

You can only hold 7 pieces of info... but...

### inability to communicate what is in the head in a systematic way

Due to the lack of clarity in my head I often am unable to communicate
with people around me. I don't have a filter or a systematic way of
delivering information for people to process. I often start at a point
and then realize I forgot to tell something else and start over
again. This happens often in my work place, when in general I am
trying explain something that I have not much understanding of. The
later beckons for more understanding Period! The former is about
delivering information. 

I also notice the "same" thing in writing I think. I write all over
the place and then work on re-arranging things over multiple
iterations and re-reading which gives me feedback. First of all it is
painful to do something like that where I don't have clarity of what
happened until now.

I was asked to deal with a trouble ticket which I had barely any
experience with. I had a look at it and had come back to my DL to
explain to him what the deal was and as expected I stammered, I
stuttered. I was slightly all over the place. I was not clear in my
head, atleast I couldn't see the flow of thoughts. In the end I
managed, owing to making notes in notebook (observation, hypothesis,
questions about domain knowledge)

This is almost everytime, whenever I have to discuss with my DL
anything, I struggle to get shit out of my mouth in an organized
manner. 

**How to DP**

During interviews I have found the STAR method (situation, Task,
Action, Result) to allow me to deliver my thoughts in an organized
manner. This I used to practice on everything that I was going to
deliver and managed. Deliberately practicing this can have a
pronounced effect on my speech and maybe writing even. I suspect STAR
might not be appropriate for delivering the above scenario
suggested. For the above case, I would first like to deliver the
Problem, the observation, followed by a hypothesis and then followed
by test and results if applicable i.e., POHTR (Potter).

So the goal is to use this framework while communicating to allow for
clarity. Improving this skill is very similar to the music
method. Focused simulation of an isolated skill. So practicing
explaining using the POHTR method for a 1000 problems is something
that I should aim for. Where will I get so many topics to talk about?
Well, I could take sources from the NEWS, news comedies, TED talks,
discussions on LessWrong and even the HPMOR work by Eliezer
Yudkowsky. Hopefully summarizing these topics will in addition to the
skill give me more understanding of the topics dealt with. The same
exercise can be used for both writing and speech.  

As for feedback, obvious feedback is you apply the above techniques in
situations in real life and see if you stammer or stutter over
time. For immediate feedback, I think I can re-read my essays, or play
my explanation-voice-recordings and determine how good or bad the
organization of thoughts is. Maybe other aspects to improve turn
up. An STM can give me feedback when he has time. For more feedback
you can ask your friends to listen to your discourse on youtube or
your blog to give feedback of how much they understood or what you
need improve on.

### inability to think like an STM

propose actions to solve problems

### inability to solve unknown problem

At work I often get problems that I have no clue about. And it is my
task to work on solving them by asking the right people for help or
knowledge, going over the observations, proposing a hypothesis and a
test.

Had a meeting with my boss and another colleague (same age,background
everything), to discuss an issue and how to solve it. I sucked, the
colleague who was into these kinds of trouble shooting didn't suck at
all and my boss was on top of everything. I was surprised my colleague
was this good, in the sense that he was able to propose hypothesis and
quickly look at pros and cons with a neat focus on the goal. Whereas I
had a bowl of thoughts being tossed inside my head, struggling to make
any reasonable contribution.

So looking at a lot of information all over the place, sometimes an
overwhelming amount even, already throws me off. I would like a way to
focus on what is important and why and improve my skills in solving
unknown problems, i.e., be much greater than my colleagues and DL. 

**How to DP**

>Coming to the applications: Much of "critical thinking", I would
>argue, falls under the chess model. The music model applies when you
>know what you want to say and it's about how well you say it. Whereas
>here, it's often a question of coming up with the right response to a
>situation. So, one practice technique would be to take case studies,
>ask yourself what move you'd make, and compare it to that of the
>experts.

Luckily for me there is a plethora of trouble tickets (TTs) at my work. I
could say spend some time after work everyday, with the focus of
training my problem solving capability. Here domain knowledge might be
quite important, but as I said, I always worked on unknown problems
(atleast thats how my DL trains me to handle new modules), its also a
way to learn about the system. So to keep it less overwhelming I am
going to look at TTs that are slightly in my domain. I should take a
look at few entries in the TT and propose the next step, compare with
the actual entry and see just like in the chess model.

>Real world as it is makes it hard to evaluate which of the proposed
>solutions is better. In any case the process of focusing on the
>problem and evaluating solutions is in itself instructive. 

My DL constantly works on solving some kickass problems for the
company. He gives his team the lame work and sometimes the nice
challenging work as well. I could look at the problems he has
solved. Not surprisingly I see that he uses the scientific
method. There is a clear statement of observations, followed by some
hypothesis that made it and some hypothesis that already failed, with
some clear tests. I could look at the problems he has solved and do
the same exercise of predicting what I would do.

Taking things to the logical conclusion. Well an STM seems to be
solving problems and some of it is online. Same excercise.

**What about feedback?**

The obvious feedback is that you would feel quite confident and ready
to attack problems coming to your desk. The feedback while working on
DP looks like it is built-in within the problem solving framework. I
could collect some statistics such as responses which are correct over
a week against the total responses made, time spent on solving
problems to allow me to know how I am doing.


### Suck at using the scientific method

where info is all over the place, lot of information (more like an
investigation)

### Lack of domain knowledge

### Inability to make and test narrow falsifiable hypothesis

Understanding motivation


### Inability to understand complex concepts

## My failures
	
- Every night when I go back home, I want to put my youtube down so I
  can sleep soon 
  
What can your critical thinking do for you?

- I know I don't have a house at the end of this month and I can't
  find a cheap one, yet for somereason I am still cool about
  things. Right now I have no real source of finding a house and am
  not really taking any effort in some deluded sense thinking that I
  have much better things to do. 
  
  I still continue to watch a lot of youtube, take up tasks for
  friends, go for dinners everyweek spending quite some time
  
  Its more about procrastination.
  
  
- Until yesterday I didn't know if I had a job or not from next month,
  meaning having to find a job in the next three months, not finding a
  job having mighty consequences.
  
- Yesterday I spent 3 hrs and today another 3 hrs at the library on
  data science. 
  
- I don't knwow how deep I should go if I don't understand anything. I
  just wait for an internal bell to ring to let me knwow if I am doing
  good or not!
	

- For the last 2 months 

- I don't knwo what is good food and what is bad food and yet I see
  myself restricting myself to certain types of food. Feeling guilty
  that I crave them.
  
- Body pain

following a istathuku way of dealing with injuries, not well thougth
out maybe?

For example, I felt the same pain come back?

My back on somedays hurts like a bitch and yet I find myself giving it
the least amount of fucking attention at the end of the day. 

What should I be worried about and what not? Atleast go to a fucking
therapist.?

- I have not idea what to do in cardio, it took me ages to sit and
  find the time to buy a heart rate meter, but now I seek other
  statistics, or the point is the heart rate meter is alone not enough
  
- it's been a while I think I am barely seeing any lifting increases.
  I am soring out at every work out but is that enough, what am I doing wrong, Shouldn't
  I revisit what I am eating and not earing.
  
- I know I can go more times to the gym or save time during weekdays
  and clock more hours of work during the day for real work and yet
  .... and yet here I am going to the gym four times only on
  weekdays. My problem is that not that I going for 4 days, but
  atleast make a tradeoff or try. The internal reason why I think I am
  not going anywhereelse might quite baffle you? I think it is
  something alone the lines of new gym, NOPE. Or maybe one month I'll
  have to spend a few extra euros, just changing gyms with absolutely
  no consequence what so ever to time of travel or closeness to the
  work
  
- The point of persuation is that you have to be so and so or be
  around so and so and yet I crave social intimacy. I "cry" when I
  suck at a social convention. It hurts. Either I understand and move
  on or do something about it, or understand that there are greater
  things to pursue and that is it.
  
- I am behaving like sheldon, I hate change as it influences every
  single thing in my life.I have a set schedule a set way of doing
  things and I would like to stick to it no matter what.
  
- I stopped measureing my fat percentage

- going behind girls

	There is this girl and I keep pursuing her. She sometimes responds
    well, which makes me happy and sometimes not, which makes me
    sad. I suck with girls, but if it is something I should improve at
    then I better do something about it or if it doens't matter then I
    fucking give up
	
- indecisiveness 

	inability to make a fucking decision be it with home, buying a
    fucking computer, buying a heartrate machine, getting a room for
    rent, or paying more and getting shit done
	
	It always comes to the end of the day or the final moment before I
    can make that stupid decision or to a point of complete bullshit
    when I say fuck it lets go! 

- lack of priority
  
- today I am going to go to practice basketball at any cost, even
  though this week I have taken up a mamoth of a task to complete. I
  have also thought it wise to schedule a meeting which will
  most likely move on till the next day.
  
- I waste a lot of time at work, either the job sucks or there is no
  learning or what ever, and yet I have not taken any effort to make
  imporvements to it. Not feeling motivated to make changes.
  
- I am probably going to go back to india in my 60s and I think it
  would be very nice to invest in a sport like badminton as basketball
  is too pricy and farfetched with amassing the number of people
  required to get a good workout rolling. And the number of badminton
  courts are booming like crazy everywhere
  
- having learn't everything about persuation, why don't I apply
  anything? 
  
- procrastination

- At work there are many times when I find myself in a situation where
  I am about to fool myself. Like yesterday, with the filter. Either I
  figure it out or accept that I don't know. But I think I was hiding
  other the implication that the work I do is really straightforward
  and not advanced at all, just flushing a filter anyone can do.

Yes you are right we do judge things based on its impact. Ok then here
  goes, what is the impact of such a thing..
  
- how to gain traction in things that are not clearly defined, like
  writing a blog as opposed to working on say DS course.
  
  The same with applying for jobs! low feedback and high demanding work.

- what is the right decision? how to come to a verdict

	Someone accused me of something, I don't want to accpet it and
  hence engage in drama of a different kind! 
  
- overcoming biases

- accepting things without proper investigation

	what is proper investigation
	
	Reading about things by an STM and just accepting them?  Like
		what? Persuation? are you telling me that the points were not
		convincing?
- inability to think in a structured manner to solve problems


- engaging in drama

	despite knowing I don't want to be engaged in it!

  P.S
  
  I started and stopped after 18 mins as this was hard and middle of
  the day for hard work! I don't like this! I usually sleep in the
  library in the middle of the day, not at work, but only at the library.
  
## 10 skills final attempt
### Accepting claims without evidence

Claims that I have accepted:
- Frozen food is good upto a month
- frozen food poses no health risks
- drinking protein shake twice a day for the rest of my life poses no
  health risk
- Any form of passive smoking is bad as fuck! Run! even if for a few
  seconds every day.
- eating teflon is not injurious to health
  
#### Accepting feelings as a substitute for evidence

I frequently come across this in writing. I say "I think ..." as a
form of escaping the legal ramifications in case I am not right. I go
on further with my reasoning from this statement I made with "I
think...". So these are just feelings.

While writing this essay I stumbled on the fact that the HRM is just
not enough to keep motivation, that I need more. And further went on
with concluding that I need to bring in intrinsic motivation. I think
I need goals to keep aiming for which would help in motivation. If
this is seen as a hypothesis then it is ok! I am afraid I take this
for granted.


<!-- needs work -->


### doing same things despite evidence

So I see that I don't take any different action and do the same thing
over and over again and get disappointed.

I have never been able to wake up early, without having enough
sleep. Alteast I hated the times when I had to. HATED and it has
been the hardest. I want to aim for 8 hrs of sleep, which I find
is quite comfortable (or even my natural waking up period) And yet
on most days I spend time on youtube/porn before getting to the
point of sleep, around an hour from the point I am on the bed.

There are 2 silent rooms in the library. One which is close to the
entrance and the other far. If you have two people next to you
whispering you are fucking doomed. And many times you have people who
just start talking normally "forgetting that this is a silent
room". This means I have to go to them and ask them to stop
talking. This happens atleast 2-6 times in during my sessions and yes
I get distracted. And also people are moving about and whispering
quite loudly which you can't do anything about. On days when I have to
focus my motherfucking brain to the max. I would not sit here (exhibit
A). And yet day after day I come into the same room, all because, it
takes more time to go peepee at the bathroom. Firstly this is stupid
and secondly despite knowing this I still come here everyday and get
pissed everytime someone talks. I get mighty distracted. as on days
like today when it is really hard to focus and concentrate, everything
happening around me is so visible. I always think it is going to be
fine today I think.

In the library the zone outside somehow became a non-smoking zone. I
love the idea of it as I have driven myself to be scared of smokers
and smoke as I want to live long. Yet day after day, I look at these
people call them idiots in my head (as I don't want to engage in drama
and focus of the task at hand (maybe there are other reasons as well))
and move on. I could send a mail to the library for example (it's a
start). Why hasn't an Agent done that! I continue to be that grumpy
old lady.

Every time I go to the gym I see that my playlist is shit and I
hate wasting time in the gym setting things up. I just want to go
and perform and get out. Yet, day after day, I find myself in the
same freaking situation.

Also working out.

### inability to prioritize (procrastinating) despite the stakes

I don't have a house starting from the end of this month. My landlady
has asked me to leave but I like to believe that there is some
leeway. Despite the stakes I have taken up another assignment from an
STM. Despite the stakes I barely worked on it over the last few days,
attempting to do something "more important". The implications of not
having a house is more than just . I just avoid the topic and say that
I will figure it out later. By the end of this post I will have 10
days. :) If I have something to do, atleast outsource the work and pay
people to do it. you might have to pay more, but that's how it is
going to be.

The company where I work recently around 2 months ago had informed
that they didn't have money to pay people and that they were trying
real hard to pay the 250 people because of lack of investors. I was in
my head hoping (just like the others) that everything was going to be
ok. They did manage to pay the salary but then had no money after. 2
weeks before they said that the situation got a little worse. And two
weeks from then, there was no news. I have to find a job in 3 months
and that could be pretty hard. It's only when shit hits the roof I
would start panicking. I didn't even have a resume or attempt to write
one. 

I have a mamoth task in my hands of writing this essay, and yet I
don't want to break the dinner with friends I have in the night. I
didn't want to stop spending 3 hours on Data Science and 2 hrs
watching videos in the name of a break and to feel motivated. And
I came back home at 2:00 am the next day, knowing that I have to
batchcook and shop for food every single week.

What is important, work or dealing with my injury by spending 1 hr at
the phisio + 26 euros? The answer might surprise you. Every morning I
wake up with pain in my shoulder blade tip. Somedays I wake up because
of this pain in the first place. If this physio didn't help, atleast
get a doctors appointment or for heavens sake do something, like
logging to see what is causing the problem etc... I chose to stick to
my schedule of work, gym, library. Anything else I do will fuck with
this system, and how can I allow that?


### Making ~~decisions based on effective im~~pact

Do I need to buy a laptop? Do I need a heartrate meter? do I need a
rain coat? For all of the above I made the decision when shit hit the
roof. 

Making decision based on numbers. I tried to while buying a laptop. 

Biases... I always go for something that is in the middle. I can't go
for the cheapest one or the priciest one. When I bought the rain coat,
when I bought the heartrate meter. But in both cases it is about 20-30
euros that I can save. Let's not get into this. But what about your
laptop, I had to make a decision and with the minimum resources I made
what was possible. 

Making decisions on the house, making decision on jobs? Well that is
how I try to solve the problem. but when the unknowns get larger I
don't have a way to deal with it. 

In the end you just make decisions based on feelings or just pay a big
price to offset the decision making.

<!-- Scrap it or needs more work -->


In decemeber my laptop started behaving wierd so I went in a mode to
repair it and things got much worse. Did a complete overhaul and yet
the system was fucked. Took a day off and spent some time figuring out
which computer to buy and came up with a cmoputer and that pc could
not sleep. I spent some time with it and returned that as well and
bought a PC 

### disparate view of money

Allias paradox much

My parents do this thing, where they sweat their asses off to save
150 rs but are happy to spend 1k on a dinner once in a while or 5k
wihout thought on a washbasin or 32 k on a new AC citing "heavy
costs" of repairing the AC. First point is you don't know until
you make a tradeoff on some assumptions regarding cost of
ac/year. They didn't do that.

I spent 200 Euros on a pair of shoes without much thought in India. I
don't think I would have dared to do this back here. Let me kick that
up a natchiappan. I spent 1000 euros in a month in India, without
flinching an eye, just uber, beer and shopping. I did things that I
would have said are fucking blasphemous if I did the same here. I
might say reasons like India daw! friends daw! Maybe things like I do
this only once in a year are reasons. Keeping all reasons aside, I
only want a way to know if it is ok or not. I just don't want to spend
or not spend. For example, having a budget for the year and sticking
to it is something that can tell me how certain tasks weigh! So there
my I might have an equivalent understanding of spending whether I am
in asia or europe.

Same thing the thought that goes into buying a hand sanitizer
which might cost 2.5 euros, hell let it even cost more than that!
Where is the hesitation comign from and I pretty much spend 1k
euros on a laptop.

Sometimes I am afraid there is a flaw in my thinking, I somehow
bring others value function into the my decision making. Which is
quite ridiculous. Mainly when making decisions with money! I am
ready to pay an agent 300 bucks for finding me a house. Whether
they work 3 hrs or 300 hrs is immeterial as long as you get a
house. In fact if there is a house without an agents fee then I
should probably take it even if it is 25 euros higher. I somehow
have this hard stop of 550 euros that I pulled out from no where.
My real question is what is the value of money?

Going to the phisio + 1 hr of work vs being with pain. 

I know I can go more times to the gym or save time during weekdays
and clock more hours of work during the day for real work and yet
.... and yet here I am going to the gym four times only on
weekdays. My problem is that not that I going for 4 days, but
atleast make a tradeoff or try. The internal reason why I think I am
not going anywhereelse might quite baffle you? I think it is
something alone the lines of new gym, NOPE. Or maybe one month I'll
have to spend a few extra euros, just changing gyms with absolutely
no consequence what so ever to time of travel or closeness to the
work




### Making better predictions

So I started cardio last september(2017), 3-4 pre week on average
in addition to sports (1-2 times a week). Immediately there came
the question of mathivanan. I think I understand the equation, so
I got my hands on a speedometer. It was not really good as the
wind was erratic and all those parameters became useless or not
representative. Biking on machines should make sense then right?
They give you stats such as current rpm and a cumilative calorie
count. With Biking I had to keep pushing unlike in running at the
gym where you are forced to keep speed by the machine. I thought
what I was missing was an "current avg number", a number that
would tell me where I was now as compared to my goal. 

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
...



### Lack of application of theory to action

I have other important things to deal with in life. I know the concept
of persuation. Considering the millions of lives dying in this world,
I for sure have things that I want to be persuaded about. I know it
was happening right in front of me, as I was hanging out with my
friends from school in chennai. All they talked about was girls and
how they got so many of them. There I am in the middle,  feeling like
a loser, feeling persuaded. I put myself in such situations over and
over again. I hang with couples here in NL (same thing). It makes you
want to have what they have. I think I even remember thinking that I
was so pious back in NL and that as soon as I came to chennai, I had a
wavering mind.

The point of persuation is that you have to be so and so or be
around so and so and yet I crave social intimacy. I "cry" when I
suck at a social convention. It hurts. Either I understand and move
on or do something about it, or understand that there are greater
things to pursue and that is it.

I try to apply the principles of not engaging in drama. Yet I find
myself brooding over silly things with no consequence from day
after. I try to run away from any drama causing situations and if they
do happen, .... I still find myself thinking about these things

I usually don't engage in drama, I get away from it or say sorry
even. But it still lingers around, I run situations in my head of
decimating that mother fucker. People are dicks, namma sakadaila kal
erinja namma maala than saru vilum. Today I got a mail from someone
who misconstrued the mail I sent, probably thought that I was ordering
them, someone who I guess likes to engage in drama as we call it. I
said sorry and would like to move on, but I keep thinking about
responses to tell him. Same with another colelague who misbehaved. I
still give him some ram. 

Needing the respect of other people in things other than what is
important for me, like telling them I am trying for this girl

<!-- need to write this much much better! -->

I know we can house 5-9 things in our short term memory. But how do I
apply it or take leverage of of it. So I have been struggling big time
with keeping track of the things I say in the essay. I would like a
methodical way of doing things. Right now it is all over the place. I
have identified some examples. From there, I tried to classify them
once and by the end of it, I am exhausted and it has been only half
hour.

#### fear of being judged

In some cases they make absolutely no sense. 

- That my physio will say
  
  > oru udambula oru kodi vyaadhi ah?
  
- eating dinner at work, people will think I am so lame, lonely

- stretching in the library and everybody will think what the fuck am
  I doing. I would like to stretch after a session of writing.
  
- asking people to stop talking or smoking

### Inability ~~to think I am wrong~~

I would never force myself to look into these aspects, if it were
not for an STM and his stupid missions. 

### Failing to explain things clearly, lack of clarity

At work many times I find myself in situations where I don't get
across to others. I know I am fucking up midway as I start
speaking. Specific instances is when I was working on a tolerance
train and I was going in circles unable to understand if what I came
up with is right or wrong. Problem is I was unable to communicate it
to others. I tried. I sucked many times. or I was not able to prove
or disprove something that I had in mind and was struggling to
convey. Worse I couldn't get it done in the end and used some finer
tolerances (a shame to me).

Another example, today. I was asked to deal with a trouble ticket
which I had barely any experience with. I had to come back to my DL to
explain to him what the deal was and as expected I stammered. I
stuttered. I was slightly all over the place. I was not clear in my
head, atleast I couldn't see the flow of thoughts. 


### inability to solve problems

Further today, the problem was escalated and I am unable to form
hypothesis or even know where to look. I am trying to look back at the
events, it is all a blur. way too much information. Where as my DL is
on high alert, he is able to see everything. Of course he had more
domain knowledge but I didn't even know how to go about it. It was
hard to even propose a direction. The direction could be to learn more
about this or that even, but I didn't manage it. It was hard to
understand propose hypothesis and solve the problem. Atleast I need
time. I also refused to do some dirty work as it would have low
returns, like digging through some documents.

Hard thinking, struggling to solve things is painful. There are so
many questions I need answer to such as "how to make essay writing as
motivating as a course on data science?". 

#### Solving problems on motivation

Motivation for cardio, motivation during work, motivation while
writing in the evening. This particular assignment is quite
painful. Very hard, something that I have not done before. 



## 10 skills attempt 2

### accepting claims without evidence
	
Frozen food is good upto a month?
frozen food poses no health risks?
drinking protein shake 2ce a day for the rest of my life poses no
danger to my health?
How much passive smoking is injurious to health and sweating about
passive smoking while passing a smoking zone.

Right now I think I have the done the "best" regarding my taxes
and that it is straight forward from now on. But have I done the
best? How can I determine it? or is it even worth it? How do I
know without even comparing to another estimate of the taxes. Well
I do know roughly in the order of 6-7 k euros is what is
expected. I think I am ok with this.! I have spent quite some time
on it. My 2 other Friends have spent quite some time on it.

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
....

I write what I feel and what feels right! Sounds fucking dangerous
bruv! I assume so many things while I write, but I have no way to
check, maybe with some system in place? Oh man, Essay writin! I
use "I think" as a way to insert my uncertainity but I suspect
that I am already thinking of the problem in terms of intrinsic
motivation. But .... PNN!

I am afraid the problem is not really here. Maybe this is just
like a beginning thing to get stats, the rest should probably be
done in some other way. Maybe the problem is 2 fold.
	
### doing something despite evidence and hoping for results.

I have never been able to wake up early, without having enough
sleep. Alteast I hated the times when I had to. HATED and it has
been the hardest. I want to aim for 8 hrs of sleep, which I find
is quite comfortable (or even my natural waking up period) And yet
on most days I spend time on youtube/porn before getting to the
point of sleep, around an hour from the point I am on the bed.

There are 2 silent rooms in the library. One is where you will be
distracted by people actually talking in the silent room and you
might have to go to them and ask them to shut up. The other is
where the above can pretty much be avoided, except in some cases
due to sound proofing. I think there are many times when I get
distracted and have to walk up to people and ask them to shut
up. The other room is a little far, and feel lazy to go
there. Today I was particularly feeling pretty disturbed, I want
out or do I? I am thinking about what bimbos they are, how they
are spending their time on insta, Rather I want high focus. Fuck
what am I doing? There is also some evidence that on days that I
absolutefuckingly have to get shit done, I go to the farther room as
it allows me minimal distractions. I do it on important days then why
is today not so important?

In the library the zone outside somehow became a non-smoking
zone. I love the idea of it as I have driven myself to be scared
of smokers and smoke as I want to live long. Yet day after day, I
look at these people call them idiots in my head (as I don't want
to engage in drama and focus of the task at hand (maybe there are
other reasons as well)) and move on. I could send a mail to the
library for example? Why hasn't an Agent done that! I continue to
be that grumpy old lady. 

Every time I go to the gym I see that my playlist is shit and I
hate wasting time in the gym setting things up. I just want to go
and perform and get out. Yet, day after day, I find myself in the
same freaking situation.
	
### inability to prioritize (procrastination)

inability to prioritize what the hell is important based on the
stakes associated. worst is taking the chance to see how things
might work out. It might also just be an inability to compute the
stakes associated. (procrastination?)

not finding a house until the last moment or putting some extra
money to find a house considering the risks

not even starting to find/write my resume for a job, based on the
bankruptcy situation last week at my company. Although there might
have been some internal probability working, until I lost the job,
I wouldn't have se fire to my ass

I have a mamoth task in my hands of writing this essay, and yet I
don't want to break the dinner with friends I have in the night. I
didn't want to stop spending 3 hours on Data Science and 2 hrs
watching videos in the name of a break and to feel motivated. And
I came back home at 2:00 am the next day, knowing that I have to
batchcook and shop for food every single week

Injuries, Figuring out whats the deal with my pain, doing more,
either by understanding or by other things, or watching videos or
going back to the phisio to consult with her, something!

### Calculating the odds? based on impact? What decision do I have to
  make?

### Making the decisions that no one else can make! 

bla bla
	
### doing things without proper reasoning (irrational)

I don't know what is good food and what is bad food and yet I see
myself restricting myself to certain types of food. Feeling guilty
that I crave them. 

following a istathuku way of dealing with injuries, not well
thought out maybe? I look at pain the next time or the successive
time to tell me that I have really fucked up. Pain is my
feedback. I still have pain in my shoulder blade every time I wake
up! Look at the impact, atleast look at videos everytime before
you go to gym as during gym the time allocated is less. I keep
doing the same thing over and over again.

I am behaving like sheldon, I hate change as it influences every
single thing in my life.I have a set schedule a set way of doing
things and I would like to stick to it no matter what.

#### irrational tradeoffs, (money matters)

My parents do this thing, where they sweat their asses off to save
150 rs but are happy to spend 1k on a dinner once in a while or 5k
wihout thought on a washbasin or 32 k on a new AC citing "heavy
costs" of repairing the AC. First point is you don't know until
you make a tradeoff on some assumptions regarding cost of
ac/year. They didn't do that.

I spent 200 Euros on a pair of shoes without much thought in
India. I don't think I would have dared to do this back here. Let
me kick that up a natchiappan. I spent 1000 euros in a month in
India, without flinching an eye, just uber, beer. I did things
that I would have said are fucking blasphemous if I did the same
here. I might say reasons like India daw! friends daw! Maybe
things like I do this only once in a year are reasons. Keeping all
reasons aside, I only want a way to know if it is ok or not. I
just don't want to spend or not spend. For example, having a
budget for the year and sticking to it is something that can tell
me how certain tasks weigh! So there my I might have an equivalent
understanding of spending whether I am in asia or europe.

Same thing the thought that goes into buying a hand sanitizer
which might cost 2.5 euros, hell let it even cost more than that!
Where is the hesitation comign from and I pretty much spend 1k
euros on a laptop.

Sometimes I am afraid there is a flaw in my thinking, I somehow
bring others value function into the my decision making. Which is
quite ridiculous. Mainly when making decisions with money! I am
ready to pay an agent 300 bucks for finding me a house. Whether
they work 3 hrs or 300 hrs is immeterial as long as you get a
house. In fact if there is a house without an agents fee then I
should probably take it even if it is 25 euros higher. I somehow
have this hard stop of 550 euros that I pulled out from no where.
My real question is what is the value of money?

Going to the phisio + 1 hr of work vs being with pain. 

I know I can go more times to the gym or save time during weekdays
and clock more hours of work during the day for real work and yet
.... and yet here I am going to the gym four times only on
weekdays. My problem is that not that I going for 4 days, but
atleast make a tradeoff or try. The internal reason why I think I am
not going anywhereelse might quite baffle you? I think it is
something alone the lines of new gym, NOPE. Or maybe one month I'll
have to spend a few extra euros, just changing gyms with absolutely
no consequence what so ever to time of travel or closeness to the
work

	
### indecisiveness, until shit gets real.

I am working on it, but it took me a while to work on the
indecisiveness of what I was going to do regarding my career. I
spent all my energy on understanding it and trading off. After a
point I just make a decision.

Same with the heart rate meter, as soon as I found something that
fit my "budget" and necessities I should go buy something instead
of procrastinating on it for ever.
	
### following up

I said I should contact the 80k hours once I have written the
post. I am afraid of keeping track of the things that are most
important and need to be done. Does this even fit? I think the
most important things will loom around! Otherwise they aren't
important anyways.

### inability to make the right predictions  but rather optimizing?

So I started cardio last september(2017), 3-4 pre week on average
in addition to sports (1-2 times a week). Immediately there came
the question of mathivanan. I think I understand the equation, so
I got my hands on a speedometer. It was not really good as the
wind was erratic and all those parameters became useless or not
representative. Biking on machines should make sense then right?
They give you stats such as current rpm and a cumilative calorie
count. With Biking I had to keep pushing unlike in running at the
gym where you are forced to keep speed by the machine. I thought
what I was missing was an "current avg number", a number that
would tell me where I was now as compared to my goal. 

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
...


	
### theory to aravindaction 

The point of persuation is that you have to be so and so or be
around so and so and yet I crave social intimacy. I "cry" when I
suck at a social convention. It hurts. Either I understand and move
on or do something about it, or understand that there are greater
things to pursue and that is it.


	
### afraid of hearing the truth? or people making fun of me

oru udambula oru kodi vyaadhi ah? 

eating dinner at work

stretching in the library!

asking people to stop smoking!

### inability to think that something is or could be wrong with me

I would never force myself to look into these aspects, if it were
not for an STM and his stupid missions. What is the impact of this
though?
	
		
### Failing to explain things clearly

- At work many times I find myself in situations where I don't get
  across to others. I know I am fucking up midway as I start
  speaking. Specific instances is when I was working on a tolerance
  train and I was going in circles unable to understand if what I came
  up with is right or wrong. Problem is I was unable to communicate it
  to others. I tried. I sucked many times. or I was not able to prove
  or disprove something that I had in mind and was struggling to
  convey. Worse I couldn't get it done in the end and used some finer
  tolerances (a shame to me).
  
  Sometimes I speak to my DL and can't get the point across, as a
  result of the lack of clarity in my head, or in my speech which was
  not methodical or which didn't start from a basic point which would
  have allowed explanation later.
  
  Many other times, I might have to explain something to people
  especially my DL. I find myself confusing my DL or just blabbing and
  asking if it made sense (when it most likely did not). I think in
  this particular case I didn't want him to think that I am stupid and
  said some thing in a vague manner so that people don't
  understand. So I have been repeating such behaviour many times. So I
  don't know something, and I purposely steer the conversation away
  from it to not look like a fool in front of someone who thinks I am
  an expert. The bigger point is it keeps happening and I don't take
  any action. None. Either I accept it or take action. I do neither.
  
### ability to Solving problems
	
There are many questions that I need help with. for example...  "how
to gain traction in things that are not clearly defined, like writing
a blog as opposed to working on say DS course is less motivating"

I have no idea how to deal with this? Similarly the question with
motivation and cardio. I am just trying new things. I am not sure if
there is a better approach and what it is.

Instead of what I am doing now with writing this essay, I would be
happy to trade this for 6 hours of DS. I think this is because the
course is structured, you get tons of feedback and time flies while
working on problems. Literally. Solving such problems.

So I read DS. I see these terms on probability distribution and I am
like, well that's not clear. So I go deeper into a question. You can
say that it is not required to go deeper as long as I am able to get
100% in the exams. But exams are easily cheatable. If my sole goal
is to crack the quiz it does not require dedicated understanding of
the probability distribution. But yet I dived in deep until my
internal bells went off or I felt satisfied about the the usage.

Right now I do something, but what are the big pitfalls for such
things anyways.

### Improving motivation: solving problems

I would like to improve motivation on tasks and design tasks with
great feedback. How!

This I think is a very important question and I have been failing
quite a bit.

Be it with my cardio motivation, or motivation during work, motivation
during writing in the evening. 

DS I am very happy to do. There is tons of feedback. I know if I doing
right or not, not day after. I know now. Plus it is programming to get
results, so very motivating. I would any day choose it over writing
for example. 

Maybe I am missing other points as well. 

### Inability to keep track of large amount of data: solving problems

	So I have been struggling big time with keeping track of the things I
say in the essay. I would like a methodical way of doing things. Right
now it is all over the place. I have identified some examples. From
there, I tried to classify them once and by the end of it, I am
exhausted and it has been only half hour. 

More time equals more work equals better essay. Brute force.


### poor understanding of consequences of actions

I have upon me a daunting task of finishing an essay in one week,
in a topic of very little experience. and yet today and yesterday
I did not spent all the time to spend on it. I did other things
like had a dinner with friends until 2 am from 8:00 pm and
batchcooked and procrastinated further.

## Isolating the skills

### Not accepting claims without evidence

I often hear things and just accept them. My friend was cooking on a
teflon pan which had much of its teflon removed over usage. And he
said, "eating teflon is not injurious ot health". In another instance
my friend said, "slightly burnt food is carcinogenic".

People around me smoke a lot. Say when you are on your bike and going
towards work, people smoke on the way. People smoke in front of the
buildings and libraries. I accept the claim that 'any form of passive
smoking is bad as fuck, even if for a few seconds a day'. 

I drink protein shake twice a day for a while now. I have just
accepted that it is ok! For the third time in the day I get protein
from another source. 

Drinking beer every week to the exact amount I drink, should cause no harm
to my health over the long term.

That I will find a house in 10 days.

That I will find a job in less than 3 months and that that time will
be peaceful.

**Impact of lack of such a skill**

In all of the above cases, it appears that it is quite important to
know the truth as I care extremely much about my health. I am afraid
that they might have quite a bit to do with life
expectancy. Researching before accepting claims as evidence could
benifit me quite a bit.

**So how do I improve this?**

Looking up evidence or not accepting claims without evidence, on the
outset looks easy. 

In this skill we do not apply it regularly that is the major
complaint, either we forget or we are just lazy as it is some
work. Once we identify a claim we need to know how to find the
evidence, but that is another skill and shall be dealt
later. Realizing that I have to be on the lookout for claims doesn't
come naturally to me as evident by the above everyday
instances. Assuming it is very very important how would DP look bruv?
Here goes...

So this looks like it is the music model, where I need high
repetition. I could start by saying I will be conscious and collect
100 claims in day to day conversations by the end of the week. The
idea I think is to train the brain to notice the claims being made and
separating them as ones with evidence and ones without. But I reckon
it will be hard, although forced with a deadline, I reckon it will
still be hard and probably there are better ways to do focussed
simulation and isolation of this skill. How about going to the news
paper or watching a shows news shows or news comedies online, and
circling out claims that are not backed by evidence. The key is to
identify what claims with evidence and without evidence look
like. This is like forcing your self to see what you should be seeing
and only that. For example, in chess, a grand master doens't see
individual pieces, he sees clusters of pieces and relates it to
something he has seen in the past. In basketball, it is very important
to train to react to your opponent, if your opponent in defence goes
right you immediately pull left and fly to the basket. If your
teammate comes out of an off-the-ball screen you pass to him! Period!
So the goal I think is to look for where these occur and a great place
with high volume to practice would be to do 100 articles on the news,
sports, and politics and circle the things that I think are claims
without evidence. For feedback, I can take another look immediately
and see if I missed out anything. And further more I could wait a few
days and revisit the article and see the difference between now and
then to get informed about my progress.

In addition how about keeping an everyday task to identify 10 claims
made during the lunch conversation and 5 claims made during the rest
of the day during interactions with colleagues. This becomes like in
usic model, you would like to practice at home in high volume, but you
would also like to play shows or play for an audience (on demand). On
demand as in where required.

In piano playing the way to become a master at playing a piece usually
starts with slowly reading the piece and playing it, no tempo
nothing. And then once you get the hang of it, we work on tempo, and
then add more details as we get better. In our situation I think we
should do the same. We should read an essay of 1k words with the sole
purpose of identifying 'claims without evidence'. After a few days
when I forget what the article was about, I do the same 1k words with
a given time limit. This way I can test if I am getting better.

**What if there are some types of claims that you don't notice?**

There is a chance that I don't notice some of the 'claims without
evidence', in that case it would be nice to have external feedback
from someone who is better than you once in a while and train based on
that.

**Does this have something to do with Rationalists taboo**

Well maybe. Rationalists taboo is all about making clarity in words
rather than using fuzzy words.

### doing the same thing despite evidence


It is very hard to wake up early, without having enough sleep (8 hrs
seems to allow me to naturally wake up). And yet I find myself
spending upto an hour on youtube/porn from the point of hitting the
bed before I go to sleep. I know if I don't wake up the next day on
time, or wake up with less sleep both have consequences. And yet, I
find myself doing the same thing over and over again.

Another example would be the following: There are 2 silent rooms in
the library. One which is close to the entrance and the other far. If
you have two people next to you whispering you are fucking doomed. And
many times you have people who just start talking normally "forgetting
that this is a silent room". This means I have to go to them and ask
them to stop talking. This happens atleast 2-6 times in during my
sessions and yes I get distracted. And also people are moving about
and whispering quite loudly which you can't do anything about. On days
when I have to focus my motherfucking brain to the max. I would not
sit here (exhibit A). And yet day after day I come into the same room,
all because, it takes more time to go peepee at the bathroom. Firstly
this is stupid and secondly despite knowing this I still come here
everyday and get pissed everytime someone talks. I get mighty
distracted. as on days like today when it is really hard to focus and
concentrate, everything happening around me is so visible. I always
think it is going to be fine today I think. And it is most definitely
not, especially when I need to rack my brain to get shit done.

So probably there are more. I think it is clear what needs to be done
in the above cases. Why I don't act is another thing, but identifying
activities in life where I can do better or changes can help me become
better seems to be important as well. This could also be like
identifying where I suck. One of the classes of places where I suck is
when I keep doing the same thing and complain to myself over and over
again and stop at that. I want to notice these easily. Until this
essay or writing this essay, I didn't consciously do two things, I
didn't consiously go down to the silentest and farthest room, nor did
I do something as simple as send a fucking mail to the library
reporting that there are people smoking. But by today I have done them
both! Hmmm! Coincidence much!

So god forbid the correlation that actively thinking about it is
forcing me to aravind act? Kill me! Is this another of those "my
internal bells just went off, essay writing you rock" moment? 

So it seems like noticing the frustration is the first step followed
by confirming its identity under this skill. Once confirmed the
question is how to attack it. So solving these problems atleast the
above have first steps which are really easy. But the question is why
I keep falling for the same mistake over and over again. So in
cricket, lets say you bowled to an opponent on the leg side. He
fucking belted the ball to the boundary. And the next ball you do the
same thing. And the next ball you do the same thing, how would you
improve this? Say, you kept making no-balls. One way would be to
consiously avoid it, by knowing that you will make it and be consious
about it. The idea is to notice the repetitive way of working. OR you
will bowl a 100 balls in practice with the focus of not or never
making a no-ball. You will be so consious about this and you will
train.

But how the hell do I train this in real life. Is there something
similar? is there a gold standard for this? Where can I get the high
volume. How about analyzing some other text, but I think it will be
very rare to find such things in texts prose. I think in this case the
only way is to notice frustration, and propose soutions?


If I want to keep track of this, the ideal thing to do would be to
maintain a journal of frustrations and keep adding to it in the form
of a counter. What I am missing though is the large volume of practice
or where I can practice noticing these things. How do I actively
notice frustration or stupidity? So every week I should work on
getting this to work or not  


### Procrastinating despite the stakes

I don't have a house starting from the end of this month. My landlady
has asked me to leave but I like to believe that there is some
leeway. Despite the stakes I have taken up another assignment from an
STM. Despite the stakes I barely worked on it over the last few days,
attempting to do something "more important". The implications of not
having a house is more than just . I just avoid the topic and say that
I will figure it out later. By the end of this post I will have 10
days. :) If I have something to do, atleast outsource the work and pay
people to do it. you might have to pay more, but that's how it is
going to be.

The company where I work recently around 2 months ago had informed
that they didn't have money to pay people and that they were trying
real hard to pay the 250 people because of lack of investors. I was in
my head hoping (just like the others) that everything was going to be
ok. They did manage to pay the salary but then had no money after. 2
weeks before they said that the situation got a little worse. And two
weeks from then, there was no news. I have to find a job in 3 months
and that could be pretty hard. It's only when shit hits the roof I
would start panicking. I didn't even have a resume or attempt to write
one. 

I have a mamoth task in my hands of writing this essay, and yet I
don't want to break the dinner with friends I have in the night. I
didn't want to stop spending 3 hours on Data Science and 2 hrs
watching videos in the name of a break and to feel motivated. And
I came back home at 2:00 am the next day, knowing that I have to
batchcook and shop for food every single week.

What is important, work or dealing with my injury by spending 1 hr at
the phisio + 26 euros? The answer might surprise you. Every morning I
wake up with pain in my shoulder blade tip. Somedays I wake up because
of this pain in the first place. If this physio didn't help, atleast
get a doctors appointment or for heavens sake do something, like
logging to see what is causing the problem etc... I chose to stick to
my schedule of work, gym, library. Anything else I do will fuck with
this system, and how can I allow that?

So it is clear I make these mistakes and especially in cases where
there are really high stakes. Now lets say I notice them, then these
appear to be about solving. I notice such problems and due to the
shear lack of things in my control it is easy to procrastinate, I
think this will go into the solving problems list. Is the question how
to gain the ability to procrastinate less? But does this have anything
to do with DP or just solving problems. Solve problems like these in
plenty? 

### Allias paradox: Money matters: being irrational
### Making better predictions

So I started cardio last september(2017), 3-4 pre week on average
in addition to sports (1-2 times a week). Immediately there came
the question of mathivanan. I think I understand the equation, so
I got my hands on a speedometer. It was not really good as the
wind was erratic and all those parameters became useless or not
representative. Biking on machines should make sense then right?
They give you stats such as current rpm and a cumilative calorie
count. With Biking I had to keep pushing unlike in running at the
gym where you are forced to keep speed by the machine. I thought
what I was missing was an "current avg number", a number that
would tell me where I was now as compared to my goal. 

So I bought a heartrate meter in connection with an app which
could give me this stat. But I see that I have different averages
during different times and I would like to log this. Suprisingly
it was posible and I have feedback. But what now? I thought that
the hearrate meter would be the most defining part of my life, but
here I am standing in front of you to say, how do I stay
motivated. I thought it solved everything but hmmm, it
didn't. Maybe it reduced the pain of biking a bit, (as the pain of
the biking without the HRM is high). Rather the question now has
become about being intrinsically motivated I think. I think that
life is not as bad as when it was before without a heartate
meter. I think the miserableness of having to bike 3-4 times a
...

### Application of theory to action

### Irrational fear of doing things

oru udambula oru kodi vyaadhi ah? 

eating dinner at work

stretching in the library!

asking people to stop smoking!

### Inability to explain things clearly

### Inability to solve problems in a scientific way

### inability to generate ideas

I feel stagnant as of this moment. I need 10 skills. I couldn't even
come up with 15. So my questions to myself are if what I have till now
come as skills or do I need more. If so where do I go.

### Others

With my injuries I follow a method of my own. I have had various
injuries in the past and if I see a new one, I try to look online, do
some excercises to make it better and slowly start straining the
muscle until eviednce is there 

But dealing with injuries as such is not the proble. But some
decisions I make on them is...

### Experimental

Inability to figure out what skills I need?

Inability to see what all is wrong with me, all the time I am like
yeah what more better I could have done. For example, I think about
how I deal with my injuries.

Writing as a means to discover ideas

Inability to generate ideas I would think. I was tasked with .. it was
the hardest assignment of my life due to the time limit and the high
level of judgement that is associated with it. DElivering hig

- Inability to deliver high quality work?


I suggest I start writing about each skill and see where it takes me
as each skill needs DP. So lets fo
### Thinking free of biases

What are some biases I know, the social proof, 

### Feeling distracted

- distracted while I need to be at my peak concentration.

like when I write I think about girls, some social drama from work,
and just keep staring at the screen without any use.
### Large work

I am bogged down by large work and hence don't do any work at all.

Just like at work, there was a trouble ticket, it was going to be a
pain to dig through all tickets, understand history of a machine. I
didn't do it, but my DL was already on top of it. I was just being
lazy to do it or there was a ton or resistance. So I ended up
procrastinting or doing other things that are of least conssequence to
my work.

I would liek to know how much is my expenditure per month, but there
are so many different expenses that happen and things that I want to
remove so I need to do some work with the CSV file I have and as a
result did nothing.

### doing random things

not measuring fat percentage, removing all sugary foods, but I don't
become thin.... Eatin 2 bags of lettuce ina  week (250g) why not more
why not less?
### how much reasoning is enough?

People around me smoke a lot. Say when you are on your bike and going
towards work, people smoke on the way. People smoke in front of the
buildings and libraries. I accept the claim that 'any form of passive
smoking is bad as fuck, even if for a few seconds a day'. 

I drink protein shake twice a day for a while now. I have just
accepted that it is ok! For the third time in the day I get protein
from another source. 

How much lettuce should I eat. What is considered as enough evidence.

### Using feelings to evaluate if I have to take action

Ah I don't feel like it, let me just forget investigating the claim
that eating teflon causes no harm to the body.




## plan for today

- goal is to add vision to this article clean it up and throw things
  into back files.
  
- Focus on the main goal. skills and dp explanation with one or two
  concrete examples based on the skill.

### Performing the solutions



### Generating ideas

It is hard to generate ideas. Especially when on a deadline. I just
need time to write a couple of rough drafts before I get to the real
points. Even if there is time this particular problem looks quite
hard. Hard because I am struggling and time is running and I barely
have 3 skills let alone 10 skills. What I am missing is how to look at
a situation and break it down into skills needed. Mostly what I need
is the ability to solve problems, a framework and working on this in
high volume.  It is simple. Ok then propose it.


### Noticing biases


Social proof, conformation bias, 
## 10 skills attempt 1


- Procrastination

- lack of motivation to do i

- inability to solve problems, instead I postpone until god delivers
  the verdict

- Inability to act despite the evidence

	be it with going after girls, when clearly that girl is not going
    to work for me, 
	
- lack of effort in finding evidence

- making bad decisions based on biases

- inability to make decisions with a money

	understanding the tre value of money.
	
- falling prey to feelings

- inability to apply knowledge

	such as persuation
	
- inability to express
  
  as a mark of clarity or understanding or just a systematic way of
  explaining sumpin to sumone! especially when I talk to my DL.
  
  Confusing people as a result
  
- inability to make the choices that no one else can make!

- doing things without focus on the ultimate goal

	I stick to routine of basketball, but what is the whole point of
    this? should I be working on something else?
  
- critical thinking or scientific method

- becoming defensive immediately as soon as someone says something
  that I don't believe
  
- fear of being ridiculed as a result of not fully understanding
  something

- accepting things without proper investigation

	what is proper investigation
	
	Reading about things by an STM and just accepting them?  Like
		what? Persuation? are you telling me that the points were not
		convincing?
- inability to think in a structured manner to solve problems


- engaging in drama

	despite knowing I don't want to be engaged in it!

	
	
	
	
